Very good movie

Great movie, can't wait to watch it again

Brilliant quality and fast delivery no problems

Good

Good film

Brill film arrived before time

Great value. Brilliant DVD

Bought as a birthday gift for my 13year old niece who's into Eminem! Very old school as I remember watching it quite a few years ago now! Great film

Good movie to watch with friends with good hip hop

Great film

Very good

Perfect

Love it, can't complain really.

👌🏻👌🏻

Classic movie

Came quick and really good price

One of my favourites.

Product as described and arrived quick

Excellent condition

Yep

Like this gift for my brother ;)

Bought this dvd and am a little confused as it didn't say 2nd hand. When I received the dvd it wasn't in any packaging.

Fast delivery great value

great and I loved everything as I got it quicker than expected and great

A*****

Sick film try make It shine I know it's a disney film but the story line is dope not proper bars dough but good

One of the first presents I bought my boyfriend and he loved it. Decent price, good film and great for any Eminem fan.

Great quality.

Quality product, arrived quickly.

I was expecting a bit more of skills, like being a bit more Eminem style, I found the battle progression not good enough. There is nothing at the level of Please Stand Up. I was expecting to see the movie song in battle, it would have been so amazing. There is no fame, just a normal guy, nothing exceptional

Good

Very quick delivery, very happy with one of my favourite movies on Blu Ray now.

Love , love this film

Amazing true life story about Eminem,

I couldn't make out what they were saying. subtitles def needed.

Such a good movie in every possible way.

I have seen the film many times, but wanted the higher quality Blu - ray version of it.It's exactly what it says on the tin.

Much loved film.

It's Eminem, 5 Stars isn't enough! Had this ages ago but just got round to buying it again so if your a fan of Eminem and one of the few that's not seen this before then definetly buy this !!

A brilliant film

Great thanks

Quick delivery! Great Dvd.

exactly as described !!

friend love his present

I was very pleased with my purchase and how quickly it arrived

Excellent product and service at the right price. ***** Thanks.

Buy this a excellent film Much better than my DVD version I had

This was used and had to skip a couple of scenes, but still great movie.

One of the best films. If your ever going through a tough time and lacking in confidence. Then 8 mile will help give you strength and courage. To stand up and fight.

excellent condition very happy with the price i paid

Brilliant quality

Great, Thank you

Old school, great acting.

Love it be prepared to nod your head to the soundtrack

Brilliant film. My type of music is rock and metal but Eminem makes this movie far worth watching. Great acting, interesting story and highly entertaining.

good film

Brilliant film. Definitely worth a watch and a buy!

tyvm

Love the movie

I really enjoyed this movie, Eminem was great. He should make more movies.

An excellent and inspirational film portraying aspects of Eminens life.

massive fan of eminem, would highly recommend this film

Great film a must for any Eminem fan,arrived quickly and in excellent condition.

Wasn't sure what to expect from this but it was a really nice surprise. Eminem plays down and out rapper Rabbit, trying to find some direction with no money and little prospects, in his first acting role. The film is gritty, showing an area with little hope for people to make anything of themselves, a trailer park culture that feels very believable. Rap battles are a mark of respect and Rabbit has to prove himself against a hostile audience which leads to a great ending where Eminem excels into his comfort zone. 5 stars, thoroughly enjoyed.

Fantastic film,very quick delivery !

Love this film, quick delivery

What a great film had it on the planner but had to buy it ,well worth a watch have seen it twice already

Eminem at his best... Loved it

Film was for my 13yr old grandson he loves it

Amazing quality, no scratches at all

amazing film. Marshall was surprisingly a good actor! and come on, who's never seen that iconic rap battle at the end? if you're a fan of Em and for some reason have never seen 8 Mile, DO IT!

best movie ever

good movie

Excellent video stars Eminem great story line all the way through shame he didn't make a sequel to the movie

Absolutely love this movie, it just shows money isn't everything.

Excellent movie

classic hip - hop film...

perfect

Good film. Down to earth performances make it realistic.

Great love this film .great quality very pleased.

Fairly enjoyable, interesting cast

There nothing to dislike about this film as far as I concerned, the story is easy to follow the acting is good, what more can you ask for

awesome movie, inspiring and interesting to see his roots

Bob on.

great

not very clear

Perfect item next day delivery what more could you want?

It was a gift for my Neice & she loves it

Love this film

Bought for a nephew he is happy

great price son loved the film

Great film

Son loves it

Excellent film!

Top film

Prompt delivery, product as expected. Didn't expect this film to be so good, pleasantly surprised.

Brilliant

Amazing film!!!

Great move.

Great film!

Absolutely love it

A++++

Beat film ever

Eminem can really act. I LOVE this film!Funny rap battles and disses.

Good film

Great film , great characters , gritty Detrroitbackdrop.

Good movie but not a good advert for American society.

The Film was excellent, if you're an Eminem fan, still an excellent film if you are not. You have to admire the guy, he got himself out of the gutter, and worked damned hard while doing it. I would watch it again, but i am his biggest fan, thankfully though I am not Stan ;) I had a second hand one, and this has never happened with any of the second hand dvd's that I have bought, but this one froze twice, so that was disappointing.

Brill movie and fast delivery

My husband loves his film so much

Product has arrived on time and is of great quality

Great film , love Eminem

If you're here, you've seen this movie or are with someone that has. You know what you're buying here. fill

Good album

Great film, brilliant cost.

surprise for grand daughter who loves it.

Great film

Excellent

A searing film, with a different view of America perhaps, especially in that guns are not dominant despite the poverty of the neighbourhood. Great performance by Marshall Mathers, while the relevance of the music and 'lyrics' is brought into clear focus.

I had this DVD given to me when it first came out. Then I couldn't get enough of Eminem. Now sadly I think the DVD is outdated. I can understand Eminem went through a lot of tough times before he became famous. But really is it essential to go through one's private life in such detail. No wonder everyone he knew kept taking him to court.

Excellent

decent film

DVD stops 1 hour in

Great

Awful film. I'd forgotten how rubbish this was.

good

Amazing

great film

Never watched this before and was shocked how good it was. Eminem is a legend

Quick delivery and great film

A fab film in every way.

Very good

I like the film but the service was excellent arrived within a couple of days very pleased

what a film

Eminem at his best.

Great item and seller

Really pleased

Excellent

An addition to my collection - arrived quickly - good quality.

Been wanting this for ages, alwaysissue it when it's in tv.

son loved this dvd

We wanted this DVD, although it was cheap at one penny plus delivery cost, I was surprised when it arrived in a plastic wallet with no box. DVD disc looks ok though so quite pleased with it

For present

Really good

Bought this for my sister, seems to work fine

Good value for money my daughter loves watching this over and over again

brill

poor quality

Unfortunately the DVD we received was damaged and stopped playing at several points. We did try and watch it until the end in the hope that it would only be a one off and unfortunately with this we missed the return slot of the 3rd of Feb. Our fault. The Documentary / Movie itself was good, but it made for a very bad watching experience.

American culture is a funny thing. In the UK we are used to the glamour of Hollywood and Friends but there is a deeper beast only the Americans know. Anyway, 8 Mile is a reference to American Pie by Don Maclean and shows how domestic America fares a lot less well than we in the UK think they do.