


When I was film editor of a little Cambridge 'what's on' magazine in 1999,
Catherine Breillat's Romance (France, 1999) was playing at the Cambridge
Arts Picturehouse. Intellectually challenged by his prejudices, over my head
the editor commissioned a lacklustre piece from a boy neophyte decrying
the film, and, by extension, much contemporary French art house cinema, as
pornography masquerading as art. It has been, and remains, a common
perception among audiences, and media professionals, in Anglo - Saxon
countries that French cinema is too 'philosophical', too gratuitously steeped
in talk of sex and sexual imagery, and a blatant showcase for the display of
beautiful women, whether clothed or not. Addressing itself to the American
spectator specifically, Mick LaSalle's book performs the very useful
function of re - presenting French cinema to Anglo audiences not so much in
terms of the aesthetically challenging, philosophically important,
cinematically aware criteria used by critics in the past, but as a model for a
cinema exploring the lives of women using a range of talented actresses; in
short, French cinema as a genuine women's cinema.

Since the 1970s, LaSalle argues, a new and lively trend has arisen in
French filmmaking in which the experiences of women from various walks
of French life have been dramatised, deploying generations of French
actresses from Catherine Deneuve, Isabelle Huppert, Nathalie Baye, through
to Juliette Binoche, Sandrine Bonnaire, Valerie Lemercier, Audrey Tautou,
Virginie Ledoyen, Elodie Bouchez and others. What is unique about this
cinema for LaSalle is that the range of films, and the opportunities they
afford actresses of various generations, means not simply that an actress can
remain in work throughout her career, but that the various lives through
which real French women pass in one lifetime become represented in the
national cinema. LaSalle also emphasises the number of women - among
them Breillat, Agnès Varda, Claire Denis, Tonie Marshall, Agnès Jaoui and
Anne Fontaine - who work behind the camera.

British art house habitués have long seen French cinema as one dedicated
to the exploration of feeling and sensibility, a characteristic that sets it aside
from the dominant masculinist Hollywood cinema of action and spectacle.
As LaSalle points out, America lacks a cinema of sensibility: 'over the last
fifty years, as women have joined the workforce and as the weekday
matinees that once sustained women's pictures have faded into history,



American films have increasingly concentrated on action, on grand
conflicts, on the world of external struggle and violence. Actresses have
become marginalised. Male box - office dominance has become a permanent
condition' (7). In this way, LaSalle's approach is unique. Usually when
people write books about French cinema, they write about its auteurs and/or
the canonical classics of France's cinematic patrimony (which itself is
arguably a very masculinist reading). By approaching French cinema in
terms of the scope it affords women actors and directors, LaSalle brings an
original optic to bear upon France, one that flees the traditional binary of
sex and philosophy - which are, again, very 'masculine' obsessions. LaSalle
includes a cogent panoply of interviews with various women, including
Huppert, Baye, Bonnaire, who talk freely about being women in the film
industry, the craft of acting, specific roles, and the lure of Hollywood. A
journalist, LaSalle has elicited some strong and memorable exchanges with
these women, for example, with Huppert on acting (19 - 20, 79, 81 - 82). To
the extent that the book does discuss individual films, which is rarely,
LaSalle displays a fine memory for detail; see his discussion of Huppert's La
dentellière/The Lacemaker (Claude Goretta, France/Switzerland/West
Germany, 1977) (19 - 21).

However, in a book designed to re - brand French cinema for an apathetic
American readership, it seems odd that LaSalle does not make more of those
occasions when actresses such as Huppert and Isabelle Adjani have, for
example, appeared in films outside of France, such as The Driver (Walter
Hill, USA/UK, 1978), Nosferatu: Phantom der Nacht/Nosferatu the
Vampyre (Werner Herzog, West Germany/France, 1978), Heaven's Gate
(Michael Cimino, USA, 1980) and Cactus (Paul Cox, Australia, 1986),
thereby extending their appeal to Anglo and other audiences. Given this
book's mission, and in the context of other studies that also aim to
acculturate Anglo spectators to French cinema (e.g. Mazdon 2000; Mazdon
and Wheatley 2010, 2013), LaSalle does not import any feminist
perspectives. This seems especially pertinent to a book dedicated to
women's lives on screen. Nor does LaSalle use any of the academic work on
acting (which itself might conversely have benefitted from LaSalle's realworld approach to the professionals studied). Another overlooked aspect of
the significance of women in French cinema is the wider cultural role that
these actresses play in French life. LaSalle does not mention, for example,
Adjani's significance for the Franco - Maghrébine community, or her charity
work, or the roles a number of French actresses have performed as the 'face
of' this or that cosmetics company. Part of LaSalle's backstory is the dismal
prospects for women of a certain age in American cinema. Discussion of the
more multi - dimensional role of French actresses in France can only
reinforce the sense in which women could be seen to define French cinema
as public figures, rather than enjoying a merely niche status as 'young love
interest', increasingly the woman actor's fate in Hollywood since Bette



Davis' heyday. Finally, LaSalle might have found himself a less bland title.
A trivial point perhaps, but symptomatic of a book the journalistic tone of
which often lapses into slick, bland, or unintelligible prose. The choice of a
still of Valeria Bruni Tedeschi looking, frankly, morose on the front cover
seems to militate against the project's alluring topic.

These caveats aside, LaSalle is astute in the way that he identifies the
enduring appeal of French cinema as one much less imbued than Hollywood
with the philosophy of right and wrong in its treatment of difficult themes,
an ethical stance which has led to many very provocative films. Indeed, in
opening up French cinema as one habitually committed to the life stories of
a significant portion of the French population, LaSalle goes some way to
promoting French product anew in an era in which American women of all
ages and backgrounds find themselves not just inadequately represented on
American screens, but under increasing attack in the wider culture simply
for being women.

