Chapter 1
    
    It was the worst of times, it was the worst of times.
    Spring was in the air, which was depressing enough, what with pollen, and bees, and bats, but my on/off girlfriend was also making my life miserable because of her pregnancy, which she continued to accuse me of being responsible for, despite repeatedly failing to produce DNA evidence. She whined and she moaned and she criticised. It was all part of a bizarre attempt to make me a better man. Meanwhile she seemed content to pile on the beef. She now had a small double chin, which she blamed on her condition and I blamed on Maltesers. There was clearly no future for us. In other news, the great reading public of Belfast continued to embrace the internet for their purchases rather than No Alibis, this city's finest mystery bookshop, while my part - time criminal investigations, which might have been relied upon to provide a little light relief, had recently taken a sordid turn, leaving a rather unpleasant taste in the mouth, although some of that may have been Pot Noodle.
    I will not detain you with the details of the Case of the Seductive Sweets, other than to say that it had started out as something which, while undoubtedly distressing for the family, was still apparently quite innocuous, at least until I became involved. A thirteen - year - old boy's life at a local secondary school was being made hell because someone had written this graffiti legend about him on a toilet wall:
 
    Mark Bruce will bum for dolly mixtures.
 
    The school immediately had it removed, but it kept reappearing in different locations. Schools are notorious for either covering things up or seeking internal solutions, but it was taken out of their hands when a local confectionery wholesaler, aware that children had taken to asking for 'a packet of Bruce' rather than dolly mixtures in local shops, and who had cornered the market in this generic brand, grew concerned that lasting and permanent damage might be caused to his business. He was undoubtedly aware of my recent successful history in tracking down graffiti artists, as detailed in the Case of the Cock - Headed Man and the Case of the Fruit on the Flyover, and so I was engaged to track down the culprit. This was not difficult. Children are notorious little squealers. When just the right amount of pressure was applied, they wasted no time in pointing their grubby little fingers at another thirteen - year - old boy, who, as it turned out, had undertaken his malicious campaign not merely for the purposes of bullying or for reasons of innate badness, but because of jealousy and for revenge. His voice had recently broken, and the affections visited upon him by one of his teachers had rapidly shifted to his higher - pitched classmate. Thus I exposed a thirty - five - year - old geography teacher, metaphorically speaking, and it is safe to say that he will never work in this town again, though he has accepted a position south of the border. However, the confectionery wholesaler was not at all amused by my revelations, fearing that they would be plastered all over the newspapers and internet if the case came to court, thus bringing his confectionery in for further ridicule, and he refused point blank to pay me. In fact, I have my suspicions that he actually helped the teacher flee this jurisdiction. They were, fundamentally, very different people, but like the Japanese and Nazi axis of evil during World War II, at the end of the day they enjoyed a common purpose, in their case, the corruption of children, and I suppose it was inevitable that they should suppress their mutual distrust and dislike in order to further their cause.
    On this spring day, with not a sniff of a customer, I sat around the counter with Alison, my expectant girlfriend and seller of bangles, and Jeff, my part - time book - stacker, Amnesty International apologist and conspiracy - theory devotee, debating crime and punishment. The secondary - school paedophile had indeed fled the country one step ahead of the law, but we were trying to decide what would have been an appropriate punishment had he been apprehended in time. We had already dismissed the usual suspects - counselling and chemical castration - and moved on to actual physical violence involving metallic objects that had to be swung.
    'A claw hammer,' was Alison's suggestion. She pointed at her forehead, the side of her skull, and her nose, and said, 'Here, here and here.'
    I disagreed. There were better hammers. I proposed a sledgehammer, or a jackhammer, or a steam hammer, or a trip hammer, or a ball - peen hammer used in metal work; a gavel would probably be quite appropriate, or a blacksmith's dog - head hammer could certainly do some damage. It really depended what kind of injury you wanted to inflict. I explained that the amount of energy delivered to the target area by the hammer blow is equivalent to one half of the mass of the head times the square of the head's speed at the time of the impact. The formula for this is:
 

 
    Alison and Jeff looked at me for a little bit, then Jeff said, 'Anyway, I think a much better punishment would be to glue steaks to him, and then throw him into shark - infested waters.'
    'Steak's too expensive,' Alison said admirably quickly, which boded well for the future. 'You'd be better off with stewing steak,' she said. 'Or mince. Mince is relatively cheap.'
    'You might have difficulty actually securing the mince to his body,' Jeff pointed out. 'You would have to keep it in its original packaging, you know, with the Styrofoam base and the cellophane. But then how would the sharks smell it?'
    'Some blood would leak out,' said Alison. 'It always leaks out in my fridge.'
    'Maybe they wouldn't be attracted to it. Maybe sharks only like human blood. They might not like cow blood. I mean, has a shark ever eaten a cow?'
    They both looked at me, the fount of all knowledge.
    'They've probably eaten a sea cow,' I said.
    'Can you milk a sea cow?' Jeff asked.
    'Would the milk be salty?' Alison asked.
    'They're not like our cows,' I said, although I suspected they probably knew that. 'They're more like seals.'
    'Can you milk a seal?' Jeff asked.
    'That's how they feed their young,' I said.
    'Once they hatch,' said Alison.
    'We're getting off topic here,' I said.
    They both nodded.
    'Okay,' said Jeff. 'Have we agreed that we can tape a paedophile to a seal and then release him in shark - infested waters?'
    Alison pointed out that you would have to catch the seal first. 'I suppose you could get one from a circus or like a water park. A performing seal. He could keep a ball up with his nose. He could put on a bit of a show to attract the shark, because maybe not enough blood would have trickled out of the mince, and even if it did, it could be carried away by the tides and currents.'
    I summed up. 'So we're taping the mince to the paedophile, and taping the paedophile to the seal?' Alison and Jeff both nodded enthusiastically. I smiled. The flaw in their logic was obvious. 'If this is designed to be a punishment for the paedophile, and you've taped the mince to him and secured him to the performing seal and released the performing seal in shark - infested waters, don't you think the paedophile will have drowned long before the shark hears about the performance, watches the show, and then gets to tear both the paedophile and the seal to shreds? Doesn't it seem like an awful lot of trouble to go to if he's going to drown in less than a minute?'
    Alison looked rather crestfallen. Jeff was going the same way, but he suddenly brightened. 'You're forgetting - the seal, and the paedophile, they could quite easily be caught in nets.'
    'What, by fishermen, you mean? How would that ... ?'
    'No, no, no - Atlanteans.'
    'Right. Atlanteans. They would be the ...'
    'People of Atlantis. If the Atlanteans spotted a man taped to a seal, they'd want to rescue him. They'd think we were being quite barbaric, taping mince to a man and securing him to a seal and releasing him in shark - infested waters. They already hate us for pollution and dragnet fishing; this would just reinforce their negative opinions of us.'
    'They might have negative opinions,' said Alison. 'It doesn't mean they're going to condone paedophilia.'
    'Maybe Atlanteans have no laws against it,' said Jeff. 'Maybe they're quite liberal, like the Dutch. Besides, they wouldn't know he was a paedophile; he's hardly going to confess, even after he's learned Atlantean. He'll probably tell them he was the victim of a travesty of justice, like the Birmingham Six and anybody from Guildford.'
    'Is Amnesty International protecting paedophiles now?' I asked.
    'No, I'm only making the point that he's not going to tell them what he has or hasn't done.'
    'We would have to brief the seal,' said Alison. 'She could tell them.'
    'She?'
    'Absolutely, you'd need a sex you could depend on. And the Atlanteans have lived underwater so long they probably converse with the sea creatures.'
    'Yeah, the way we converse with cows?'
    'Land cows?' asked Jeff.
    The possibility of a customer to interrupt proceedings was remote, so it could have dragged on for ever. Fortunately it was at precisely this point in our discussion that I was distracted by a figure walking past the
    No Alibis front window. In truth I could equally have been distracted by a fly or a dust mite, such was the level of our conversation, but in this instance, even though I only had the briefest glimpse of him, there was something familiar, and yet unfamiliar, about his face, and gait. For several moments I struggled to place him, but then suddenly the penny dropped, the cash register opened, and I was out of the door and after him.
    Now, looking back, after all the trouble that followed, I know that I shouldn't have moved a muscle, that I should have let him go, and then I would never have become involved in what became my most difficult and distressing investigation to date, the Case of the Pearl Necklace, a case that would ultimately put Jeff's life, my girlfriend's life, her unborn baby's life and, much more importantly, my own life on the line.
____________________________________________________________

    
Chapter 2
    
    I have never in my whole life actually physically pursued a case, because any kind of activity requiring increased motor function is something I have to be wary of, but I could hardly help myself. Of course I didn't know it was a case then. Then it was just a man walking past my window - but what a man! You see, in my field of crime fiction, Augustine Wogan was an enigma, a myth wrapped up in a legend, a barely published novelist and screenwriter who was known to so few that they didn't even qualify as a cult following, it was more like stalking. He was, nevertheless, Belfast's sole contribution to the immortals of the crime - writing genre. His reputation rested on three novels self - published in the late 1970s, novels so tough, so real, so heartbreaking that they blew every other book that tried to deal with what was going on over here right out of the water. Until then, novels about the Troubles had invariably been written by visiting mainland journalists, who perhaps got most of their facts right, but never quite captured the atmosphere or the sarcasm. Augustine Wogan's novels were so on the ball that he was picked up by the RUC and questioned because they thought he had inside information about their shoot - to - kill policy; shot at by the IRA because they believed he had wrung secrets out of a drunken quartermaster; and beaten up by the UVF because they had nothing better to do. He had been forced to flee the country, and although he had returned since, he had never, at least as far as I was aware, settled here again. I occasionally picked up snippets of information about him from other crime - writing aficionados, the latest being that he had been employed to write the screenplay for the next James Bond movie, Titter of Wit, but had been fired for drunkenness. There was always a rumour of a new novel, of him being signed up by a big publisher or enthusiastic agent, but nothing ever appeared in print. The books that made up the Barbed - Wire Love trilogy were never republished. They are rarer than hen's teeth. I regarded the box of them I kept upstairs as my retirement fund. In those few moments when I saw him pass the shop, I knew that if I could just persuade him to sign them, their value would be instantly quadrupled. They say money is at the root of all evil, but I have to be pragmatic. I am devoted to crime fiction, but I am also devoted to eating, and Augustine Wogan was just the meal ticket I was looking for.
    By the time I caught up with him, I was gasping for breath. It was only twenty yards, but if God had intended me to be a long - distance athlete, he wouldn't have given me a collapsed lung and rickets.
    'Mr Wogan?'
    He stopped, he turned. It was indisputably Augustine Wogan, though he had dropped a hundred pounds and lost several chins since we had last spoken. He was gaunt now; he looked twenty years older when it should only have been five; he wore a long, thin beard and clasped a leather briefcase to his chest with a defiance that made him look as if he'd taken a job amongst the Hasidic Jew diamond - sellers of Antwerp and run off with the merchandise.
    'What?'
    Irritated, distracted, paranoid.
    That's just me, so it's always nice to meet a brother in self - harm. You can tell. It's in the eyes. I'm good with eyes. I had recently been unmasked as a charlatan by the Support Group for People Depressed Because They Have Been Rejected by their Cornea Transplants. I kept telling them that I was seeing ghostly images of murder victims during those brief weeks before rejection set in, and that the dead man's eyes I wore were those of a killer. But they refused to believe me, mostly because the paperwork showed they had belonged to a traffic warden from Sion Mills. It was a small group, but torn by power struggles. Not so much a case of the blind leading the blind as the hazy leading the indistinct. As it turned out, in the land of the blind, the one - eyed man truly was king, and he had me out on my arse.
    'What do you want?'
    I had drifted. I shook myself. 'Mr Wogan, it's me . . .' I turned and pointed back at the shop. 'From No Alibis? You did a reading about five years ago?'
    'What of it?'
    He was glaring at me.
    'Sorry - I didn't realise you were in a rush.'
    'Why not? Wasn't I rushing?'
    'Yes, you were, but ...'
    'What do you want?'
    'I was hoping you might sign some - '
    He was all set to growl something else at me, and I was all set to sink to a new, lower level of grovel, when there was a little ping off to his left, nothing more than the tiniest piece of gravel rebounding off a car windscreen, but by his reaction, ducking down and scurrying towards me for protection, you would have thought, and he clearly did, that someone had taken a shot at him. It was not a shot. Or if it was, Action Man was on the loose. But for the purposes of getting what I wanted, I was quite prepared to accept that it was a gunshot, and I quickly ushered him towards the safety of Belfast's leading crime emporium.
    To their eternal discredit, Alison and Jeff were still discussing the taping of mince to a paedophile and the paedophile to what had now become a dolphin - without apparently noticing that I had left the building. They certainly noticed my return, but only because I was bustling a terrified - looking Rasputin through the door and ordering Alison to get him a chair.
    Alison blinked at me.
    I next ordered Jeff, who, being an employee, of sorts, was much more compliant.
    'Have a seat, have a seat,' I said as Jeff put it in place.
    'Thank you...thank you ...'
    'Get him a glass of water.'
    Alison was looking at me, knowing how rare it was for me to fawn over anyone. Jeff nodded and turned to the kitchen.
    'Please, no, don't go to any trouble.' Augustine held up his hand. 'Evian if you have it.'
    Jeff hesitated, then looked to me for direction. From behind Augustine I drew a bottle outline in the air, and Jeff got it immediately. We keep a selection of empty designer water bottles in the kitchen for the exclusive use of prima donnas. In his field, Augustine was actually a prima donna, in the best sense of the words, but it didn't mean he could tell branded water from tap. Or as it turned out:
    'Fuck! That tastes like fucking shite!' He grabbed the bottle and examined the label. 'Sell by March 1997 - are you trying to fucking kill me as well?'
    He let out a cry, and hurled it across the shop, spraying water over a display of books that would shortly boast a sign saying Water Damage Sale, though actually I would have increased their price.
    Before I could apologise profusely, he held his hand up again and said sorry himself. He was under a lot of pressure. He appreciated us giving him sanctuary. For the first time he nodded around the shop.
    'I do remember this place. Yes. Did a very good reading in here, didn't I? What did you call that tit used to own it?'
    I cleared my throat. 'I own it now,' I said.
    Augustine nodded at Alison. 'This the missus?'
    'Working on it,' said Alison.
    He turned his gaze upon Jeff, who shrugged and said, 'Jeff - I just do stuff.'
    Augustine shook his head. 'Well, nice to meet you all.' He patted his jacket pocket, and produced a long, thick cigar and snipped the end of it with a small guillotine cutter. He was about to light up when Alison said, 'No.'
    'No?'
    'No.'
    'But somebody just tried to kill me.'
    'No.'
    He looked at me. I gave him my helpless shrug. I was one hundred per cent against smoking, particularly in my shop, but he was Augustine Fucking Wogan!. Fortunately he didn't try to force it. It was just another thing that was going against him. He looked sadly at the cigar, then slipped it back inside his jacket. He shook his head. He sighed. 'How appropriate,' he said, 'that a crime writer should wash up in a mystery bookshop, here, at the end of it all.'
    He stared at the ground. His shoulders began to shake. He cried silently. It was terribly sad to see the great man brought so low, and I would have put an arm around him and given him a hug if I wasn't allergic to people. Alison did the twirly finger thing at the side of her head, asking if he was nuts. Jeff did the mobile phone with his fist, for the emergency services, before miming pouncing with a butterfly net. Their reaction to this first encounter with Augustine Wogan was understandable; they did not know who he was, the giant that he was in his field, nor that his signature, applied to a dusty box of books, would help No Alibis get through the doubtlessly lean summer months. They took him at face value - a head - the - ball I'd dragged in off the street.
    Alison said as much, pulling me to one side as Augustine continued to sob his eyes out. 'Just what this shop needs - another maniac. How are we going to get rid of him?'
    'We aren't. Don't you know who he is? Augustine Wogan? The Times named him amongst their One Hundred Masters of Crime Fiction. At number seventeen. The sixteen above him are already dead. The Daily Telegraph put him in their top ten Fifty Crime Writers to Read Before You Die, despite the fact that his books have never been picked up by a mainstream publisher and they've all been out of print for twenty years!'
    'So?'
    I turned to my trusty assistant. 'Jeff - how many times a week do people come in here asking about Augustine Wogan and how to get hold of his books?'
    'Uhm - once?'
    'Yes, but it's every week!'
    'Uhm - yes, but it's usually the same bloke.'
    'That isn't the point! He wrote the Barbed - Wire Love trilogy; he's a genius!'
    'Well your genius looks mental.' She shook her head. 'Maybe he could be a genius down at Waterstones?'
    'Philistine,' I hissed.
    I knelt before him. He still had the briefcase pinned to his chest by his elbows. I gingerly prodded a knee. 'Mr Wogan. Augustine. Is there anything I can do to help?'
    He rubbed at his eyes with his knuckles. 'Help? I think it's too late for that.'
    'Is there somebody I can call for you?'
    'It's definitely too late for that.'
    'Well, you were rushing somewhere; do you want me to call wherever you were going?'
    'No, I don't think that would be a good idea at all. You see . ..' He let out a sigh. He looked from me to Jeff to Alison and back. Then he opened his briefcase and reached inside. He took out a gun. 'I was on my way to kill someone.'
    'Oh,' I said.
    'Bloody hell,' said Alison.
    As Augustine waved the gun listlessly around, Jeff ducked down behind the counter. I stood up, and stepped back.
    'Oh, I'm such a bloody fool,' Augustine wailed. 'I have immersed myself in crime fiction for all these years and convinced myself that I know something about crime, about murder and how to do it and get away with it, when the truth is I'm just a ham - fisted, gold - plated old eejit. I was building up a head of steam, and you interrupted me, and now I don't think I have the strength to make another run at him. Thank God you stopped me when you did - divine intervention, that's what it is, that's what it is!'
    We were stunned, we were shocked, we didn't know where to look or what to say. He was the legendary Augustine Wogan, but reduced to a sobbing, gun - toting wreck.
    Alison already had the phone in her hand.
    Jeff was clutching the mallet I keep for protection just beneath the counter.
    'While you're here,' I ventured, 'do you think you could sign some books?'
____________________________________________________________

    
Chapter 3
    
    Alison was telling me I had to get him out of the shop, that he was clearly brain - damaged, that we shouldn't allow him to say anything else because I was so weak and insipid I was bound to be pulled into something dark and dangerous, and I would drag her in with me. She was pregnant, and that was scary enough. I had told her a million times that I was only interested in little itty - bitty cases, not much more complicated than crosswords or, God help me, Sudoku, but somehow they never quite worked out like that. There were always gunshots, bodies, terror, blood, pine trees or stuffed animals, and we just didn't need it right now; we had to be thinking of little Caspar.
    'Just get the gun off him,' she said, 'and if you don't call the police, I will.'
    I met her halfway. I removed the gun. He didn't put up a fight. He was a broken man. But I couldn't phone the police. I didn't want my legacy as a bookseller to be that I had put the greatest crime fiction author ever to come out of Belfast behind bars, especially as he hadn't even responded to my request to sign my precious books, and in doing so render them even more precious.
    'Look,' I said, showing her the gun, 'he's disarmed, he's not a danger to anyone now. The least we can do is let him talk about it if he wants to. What's the harm in that?'
    'You know exactly what the harm is.'
    'I swear to God we won't get involved. I've had it with danger, you know that; my blood pressure is worse than yours, and I'm not even pregnant.'
    'Your blood pressure is perfectly normal.'
    'That's just what they want me to think.'
    She glared. I glared back.
    She would win, but I was getting better.
    Fortunately, or unfortunately, given what was to come, fate, or Augustine, intervened.
    'He killed my wife.'
    We both turned.
    'Who did?' Alison asked.
    Augustine shook his head.
    Alison said, 'Sure let me get you a wee cup of tea and you can tell us all about it.'
    She's unpredictable and contradictory, and I suppose it's part of the reason I love her, albeit in an infinitesimally small way.
    The tea boy brought the tea, and then sat there as if he was somehow entitled to listen in to a deeply personal conversation. I gave him work to do in the stock room, and he made a face, and I made one back, and he was about to respond in kind when Alison gave him one of her looks and he quickly disappeared. I didn't like it. I didn't like that he was more scared of her than he was of me. Or that she thought she could boss him about when she didn't own the shop like I did. I have the deeds. They're secure.
    'I'll be mother,' she said, and I didn't much like that either. Augustine nodded gratefully, but made no move for the cup. 'You were saying, your wife?'
    'My beautiful Arabella. Oh yes. He killed her all right.'
    'Who he?' I asked.
    Augustine sighed. 'Do you remember the days when old people looked like old people? Old and stooped and the women pulled tartan shopping trolleys behind them and wore brown tights like bank robbers, but on their fat varicose legs? Whatever happened to those days?'
    'Well ...' Alison began.
    'They all want to fight time, don't they? My Arabella was the most beautiful girl in the world, but you could tell her it until you were blue in the face and she still wouldn't believe you. And now, of course, she is blue in the face. I'm sixty - two years old. Arabella was sixty. She looked forty - five. But she wanted to be twenty - five again. Oh, the price of vanity!'
    'So who do you think killed her?'
    Tenacious is my middle name. I had recently changed it from Trouble.
    He looked me straight in the eye and said, 'You.'
    He paused.
    Whether he meant it to be dramatic or not, it was.
    Alison looked at me, already prepared to accept that I was guilty.
    'You know what it's like for a crime writer like me, don't you?' Augustine eventually continued. 'My name is known, the critics love me, but I haven't made a red cent from my books. I scraped by for a while writing screenplays, but that was twenty years ago. All this time I've been writing; I've a room full of manuscripts, but I've never sent them out, never been happy with them. But all these years, my Arabella has been supporting me. She's from landed folk, inherited money, and we've lived well, but we whittled most of it away travelling. Once the Troubles were over, we talked about coming back here, we looked at houses. Arabella's a social girl, she likes the parties and the theatre and cocktails, so when she came back, she wanted to look her best. That's where he comes in: the Yank, Dr Yes, Dr Chicago, whatever the hell you want to call him.'
    The names meant nothing to me, but Alison was on it straight away.
    'I know exactly who you mean. Dr Yeschenkov; he's yummy, all the girls would have his babies. With the exception of me, obviously.'
    I raised my hands, helplessly. 'Will someone elaborate? Please?'
    'He's a plastic surgeon,' said Alison. 'He has his own private clinic, he runs a programme called
    'The Million - Dollar Makeover,' said Augustine. 'Nothing would do Arabella but she had to have it.'
    'He takes you away for like six weeks . . .'
    'He's cut it down to four.'
    'He puts you up in a swanky hotel . . .'
    'It wasn't that swanky.'
    'And he does a whole series of procedures, brings in the top guys in their field
    'So he says.'
    'You've seen it on TV: eyes, teeth, tummy, boobs, keeps you away from prying eyes for six weeks
    'Four.'
    'And then does a grand reveal, and you look stunning.'
    'He's a butcher!' Augustine shook his head. There were tears in his eyes again.
    'Did it all go hideously wrong?' I asked, as gently as I could.
    Augustine glared at me. 'What do you think?'
    'In what way?' Alison asked. There was something about the way she said things that just seemed nicer. More sympathetic. I was pretty glad I hadn't voiced my first thought, which was to tell him he should have been wary of anyone offering to make a silk purse from a sow's ear.
    'I don't know, that's the point. They wouldn't let me near her the whole time . . . and I know that's what you sign up for . . . but I just missed her so much. We tried to speak on the phone every night, but she was tired and in pain and all bandaged up. She sounded miserable. But she was determined to go through with it. I spoke to her on the Wednesday night and she sounded more positive; she had one more procedure to go through, then they'd start taking off the bandages and showing her what they'd done. After that they'd do hair and make - up, new clothes, then I'd be invited up for the big reveal. Except the call never came.'
    'Because?' I asked.
    'Because buggery to fuck, she was dead, wasn't she?'
    'On the operating table?'
    'Yes! No! I don't know. They deny it. They say she was fine when she left them, she looked great. Dr Chicago, Dr Yes, Dr Fucking Scissorhands says she signed her cheque, signed herself out and went on her merry way. He says it's a sad fact that sometimes his programme gives women a new lease of life; they want to recreate themselves, start afresh and so they disappear and sometimes they go to extraordinary lengths to cover their tracks.'
    'And . . . could she not . . . have?' I asked tentatively, although obviously not tentatively enough, judging by the look Alison gave me.
    'No, absolutely not.'
    He would have left it at that, but I persevered.
    'You're sure? Women are unpredictable, they change with the
    Alison snorted.
    'Do you know how I know?' Augustine asked. 'I know she didn't just disappear because of the last words she said to me in our final phone call.'
    He dropped in that pause again. He was definitely good at the dramatics.
    'Yes?' Alison asked, unable to contain herself.
    I was expecting something dark and suspicious, some prescient hint that things were not as they seemed.
    'She said, "I love you, honey bun.'"
    And just like that, he drew Alison into the trap, and like a fool, I followed.
____________________________________________________________

    
Chapter 4
    
    I phoned Alison at three a.m. Obviously, I wasn't sleeping. She answered groggily. 'Brian?'
    In days gone by, the presumption that it was her ex - husband might have driven me insaner with jealousy, but I was now well used to her wicked ways. She was like Bennett Marco in Richard Condon's The Manchurian Candidate, perfectly normal for ninety - nine per cent of the time, but secretly brainwashed to say something cutting and nasty at a subconscious trigger, in this case her bedside telephone ringing.
    She said, 'What? Who is this?'
    'Who do you think?'
    'Oh. Sorry. Asleep. What?'
    'I just wanted to say .. .'
    And having learned the art of the dramatic pause from a master, I gave her exactly that.
    'What?'
    And kept it going.
    'What?'
    And kept it going.
    'Oh for fuck - '
    'I just wanted to say, if you think we're calling our son Caspar, you've another think coming.'
    And then I hung up.
    Sometimes it's the little things that give the greatest pleasure.
    
    
    I never truly sleep, but I do occasionally venture into the half - awake Land of Nod, where I have timeshare. But this night I endured a nightmare about Mother. I had finally consigned her to a pre - funeral home several weeks previously because since her stroke she was just too much trouble, but now as I twisted and turned I imagined that she was back in her bedroom at the top of the house. I heard the clump of her footsteps on the floor above, their creak on the stairs as she descended, and then heavy breathing outside my door. I screamed at her to leave me alone, that I hadn't been bad, but I was sorry and would be a better boy. I buried myself under the quilt and prayed for her to go away, and eventually drifted off.
    I was up at the first light of dawn, angry for foolishly terrifying myself when I knew all along that the sounds were not born of a feverish nightmare, but were very real, and belonged to the gaunt, red - eyed and destitute author Alison had invited to sleep in my big, empty house without so much as a by - your - leave and who was already sitting at my breakfast table, gorging himself on Rice Krispies. She was so wrong about my house. You're never alone with a personality disorder. And sometimes it's preferable to having an actual, real - life guest, one whose emaciated chest is exposed by a barely tied borrowed dressing gown last worn by my incarcerated mother and who is happily slobbering down the last of the skimmed milk.
    I knew why Alison had done it, and I could understand her reasoning. She wanted to help this heartbroken man, and I had the space. In a way I liked the idea of him being there, because I could pump him for information about his writing, and I could engage him in conversation while quietly passing him copies of his exceedingly rare books to sign. But the reality was different. He was barely through the door before he was ordering pizza, and I had to pay for it when it arrived, an outrageous price considering the size of it, the thinness of it, and the fact that everything he had chosen to top it with was liable to set off my allergies. And also, he wolfed it without offering me any. He washed it down with Mother's sherry. He must have had two pints of it. In pint glasses. One might argue that he was drowning his sorrows. But he held his drink with the expertise of a professional mourner. When I tried to talk to him about his work, he never quite managed to answer any question I put to him, opting instead to launch into a preamble, then transferring to a tangent before settling on something completely irrelevant. I had some very detailed questions to ask about his Barbed - Wire Love trilogy. In fact one question alone took me fifteen minutes to deliver. He ought to have been flattered that I was so interested in his work, but he chose instead to roll his eyes, puff on his cigar, which he lit safe in the knowledge that Alison was no longer present, gulp his sherry and then say at the very end, I'm sorry, could you repeat the question? Even my attempts to get him to sign his own books were thwarted. When I produced the box, he marvelled at their pristine condition and then proceeded to bend their spines as he began to read them as if he had never seen them before. I literally had to prise them loose from his fingers and put them away for safe keeping. I was just trying to do some business, and he was being a nightmare. My plan to quadruple my investment disappeared as fast as the pizza.
    Only late on, when he was very drunk, did he finally start talking about his lovely Arabella again. He grew tearful. He raged. He accused and pointed the finger of blame. I listened and nodded - that was all he wanted. He was in no mood to discuss the evidence, or lack of it, or for me to dissect his delusions, which is what they undoubtedly were.
    
    
    'You need more Rice Krispies,' he said.
    He didn't need to say. The box was on its side, the remaining dust spilled across the kitchen counter, only some of it drowned by the trail of milk he had left, leading from the counter across the floor to the table.
    As I sat opposite him, having Lo - Lo'd a sliver of wholemeal, he crammed another overflowing spoonful into his mouth and spluttered out, 'He has testicles everywhere.'
    'Excuse me? Who has testicles . . . ?'
    He swallowed down. 'Tentacles, he has tentacles everywhere.'
    'Oh. Right. Who? Mr Kellogg?'
    'Dr Yes.'
    I just went, 'Mmmmm,' and continued eating. I didn't want to go over the same old accusations again. I was already going to have to repeat them to Alison as soon as she arrived. She hadn't been able to join us last night because of a hair appointment.
    A hair appointment.
    A hairdo.
    They are such contradictions.
    It was the only time she could go, because of work.
    I ask you.
    She let slip that it cost £75.
    I bloody ask you.
    Like taking food out of Caspar's mouth.
    Shit!
    She was now brainwashing me. Her original suggestion of Rory was bad enough. No child of mine would ever be called Caspar.
    If indeed he was a child of mine.
    I didn't respond to Augustine's tentacles assertion until about an hour later, when he finally emerged from my shower, having used all of the hot water, and came downstairs, still wearing Mother's dressing gown, fruitlessly searching for something to eat while he got dressed. As he picked his way through the fridge, Alison arrived through the back door and greeted him enthusiastically. She had brought three Starbucks frappuccinos with her, which was a nice thought, and out of character.
    As Augustine shuffled off clutching his, Alison raised an expectant eyebrow. Actually, all of her was expectant. When I didn't respond she said, 'Well?'
    'Well what?'
    'The hair?'
    'Did you not get it done?'
    'You're funny.'
    'No, seriously. It doesn't look any different.'
    'It's a different colour.'
    'I think not.'
    'It was blonde, and now it's honey blonde.'
    'If you say so.'
    'And it's half the length!'
    'Are you sure?'
    'Yes! I needed something more manageable.'
    'Like me?'
    'You're funny.'
    'So's your face.'
    'Just ... oh! I don't know why I bother.' She sat down at the kitchen table and opened her Starbucks. I joined her. I gave her a long look.
    'Seventy - five quid? I don't think I've spent that much on a haircut in my entire life.'
    'I rest my case.'
    I could have told her the truth, that Mother had been cutting my hair for the past thirty years. It was a simple process, involving a cereal bowl and a flamethrower. Or I could have explained that my father used to take me to his barber, as fathers do, but at the age of twelve, when my interest in mystery fiction was just starting to take over my life, I stumbled across an ancient reprint of an old penny blood serial called The String of Pearls, featuring that urban legend Sweeney Todd, and I refused point blank to go to a barber's after that in case he cut my throat. I was a sensitive kid. Luckily, I grew out of it. Could have told the truth, chose not to.
    Alison said, 'So, what's he been saying?'
    'Tentacles.'
    'As in . . . ?'
    'Dr Yeschenkov, his tentacles reach everywhere, apparently, the police especially, which is why they tend to side with him over lovely Arabella. They think she's run off too. They say her credit card was used at a cashpoint in Dublin a week after she checked herself out of her hotel.'
    'It could have been stolen.'
    'That's what I said. Apparently the police brought Augustine in and showed him CCTV footage the Garda sent up, taken from the bank's camera above the cashpoint, of her taking the money out.'
    'What'd he say to that?'
    'He said it looked like her, but it wasn't her.'
    'But he hadn't seen the new - look Arabella.'
    'Exactly. But he's convinced.'
    'So they told him to bugger off.'
    'Yep. He went to the newspapers, weren't interested. He stormed the clinic, mad drunk, thinking that would get the press interested, but all it got him was a night in the clink. He took to standing outside shouting at anyone going in or out. They took out an injunction. Court told him he couldn't go within half a mile of it. So he stands half a mile away, with a megaphone. He's been bombarding them with phone calls and e - mails and ordering coal for them, and pizza, and wreaths and all sorts of shit, generally just being really annoying.'
    'And all he wants Dr Yes to do is stand up and admit to killing his wife?'
    'That's all.'
    'And he has no hard physical evidence at all?'
    'He's seen her medical records. The only thing he can say is that she was allergic to penicillin, but it doesn't show on her consent forms.'
    'And they say to that?'
    'They say it does on the original, and they sent over poor photocopies; they rectified it and sent better copies.'
    'And he suspects conspiracy.'
    'Obviously.'
    Alison took a sip of her coffee. A little bit dribbled down and nestled in her extra chin. She saw me looking at it and wiped it away. I stared at her hand.
    She rolled her eyes but lifted one of the napkins that came with the coffee and wiped the back of it. I nodded appreciatively. She balled the napkin and chucked it over her shoulder.
    'It doesn't mean he's wrong,' she said. 'We shouldn't underestimate the bond there is between a man and his wife and the instinctive knowledge that brings.'
    'Or you could be talking bollocks.'
    'All I'm saying is that short of speaking to Arabella herself, Augustine is probably the one other person in the world who knows her best. That last phone call was so full of love
    'According to him.'
    '. . . and there was no indication that she was unhappy or planning to take flight. She would have been on a high knowing the big reveal was coming; why would she suddenly disappear?'
    'It doesn't matter why. There is no evidence of foul play, but there is evidence that she's alive and well and spending her money. She went to Dublin, she probably caught a flight somewhere. Augustine Wogan is an alcoholic, paranoid wastrel; she's had enough of him. All we need to do is get him to sign some books and then get him the hell out of here.'
    'You're wrong. He's in love, and he knows something is badly wrong, but nobody will listen to him. His wife is dead and Dr Yes is pulling strings to cover his tracks and get away with murder.'
    'God, you're turning into a conspiracy theorist as well! Have you by any chance swallowed Jeff?'
    'Not recently.'
    'You're funny.'
    'So's your face. Look, you've been championing Augustine for years; don't let him down now. I have a feeling about this. And we're his last hope.'
    We locked eyes across the table, each of us unaware that Augustine was standing in the doorway, arms folded, immaculately dressed in one of my father's long - mothballed suits, at least until he said, 'Of the two of you, I think I prefer you, princess.'
    Alison glowed.
____________________________________________________________

    
Chapter 5
    
    Of course I backtracked. It is my default mechanism. I assured him I was merely playing devil's advocate, and of course we were going to look into his case. But I had no intention of it. The truth was that the trauma of having him at such close quarters, in my mother's bed and dressing gown, in my father's suit and eating me out of house and home, had somewhat dulled my enthusiasm for persuading him to sign my stash of books. I could just forge it and nobody would be any the wiser. I had already taken pictures of him on my mobile phone while he dozed sherry - drunk in one of my armchairs, with me posing beside him like we were great mates; pinning those above the signed books would be authentication enough, at least for your average mug amateur or lower - level dealer.
    I just wanted rid of him. But Alison, who knows a thing or two about eggs and how to exploit them, sat him down at the table and scrambled the only two left in the house. As he shovelled them in, I made faces at her across the table, but she ignored me. When he had finished scoffing them down, he wiped his mouth with the back of his hand. Standards were slipping everywhere.
    He said, 'Thank you, Alison, that was lovely.' She smiled demurely. 'Now, what are we going to do about my Arabella?'
    'Do?' I said.
    'We're going to find her, or find out what happened to her,' said Alison. I made a kind of choking sound. 'In our spare time we do investigate certain cases. We've had quite a lot of success. My partner here is a bit of a genius.'
    I made another face. She would not win me over.
    'Well that would be . . . fantastic . . . I've really nowhere else to turn .. . but I'm afraid I've nothing to pay you with.'
    'That won't be necessary. We don't do it for the money.'
    I grrrrrred.
    'It would mean the world to me. And do you know something?' He was looking at me now. 'Even though I was rather flustered yesterday, I was looking at your shop, and it's really quite wonderful. You obviously have a great love of books and writing. I was wondering if you've ever thought of publishing your own books, you know, limited editions maybe?'
    'Done that,' I said. 'There's bugger - all money in it.'
    'Really? Because, as it happens, I have a little manuscript sitting around. Maybe we could work something out, you know, in lieu of payment; you could publish that?'
    The first faint stirrings.
    'Yeah, maybe.'
    I didn't want to get too excited. Yes, he was critically acclaimed, but his only known works were more than twenty years old. If he had written it recently, it was probably as mad as he was.
    'And you should know,' said Alison, at which point I realised that I'd said it out loud.
    I laughed and said, 'Sure we're all a bit mad. What's the book?'
    'Well, you know this Barbed - Wire Love trilogy you're so enamoured of?'
    'Yes?'
    'There were always actually four parts to it. Because it was self - published, and it didn't sell at all, I didn't have enough money to put the fourth one out. So it's been gathering dust all these years, which I've always thought was a great pity, because it throws a whole new light on the rest of it.'
    He nodded thoughtfully.
    Alison gazed at me across the table, probably wondering why I appeared to be suffering a stroke.
 
        
    I wasn't convinced of the wisdom of leaving him in the house by himself, but it was either that or bring him with me to No Alibis, and I could do without that. He was just a stress to have around. And besides, I wanted to dive head first into solving what would become the Case of the Pearl Necklace, because in my head I was already formulating ambitious plans for the first publication of Fire in the Sky, the fourth book in what was now no longer a trilogy but a cycle of novels, and beyond that persuading Augustine to let me reprint the other books as well. I would be acclaimed throughout the mysterious world for not only discovering the unknown fourth book, but also rescuing the original trilogy from obscurity. And if I kept them to limited editions, I could charge an absolute fortune and secure No Alibis' future as well. I was on such a high, although part of that may have been down to my extensive list of medication, which I seemed to have taken twice that morning by mistake.
    Even Jeff noticed, and he's an idiot. When he brought me the wrong coffee from Starbucks, I did not even shout at him, merely sent him back for the right one. When he returned I told him to man the till, and trusted him with its key, and he smiled as if he was in seventh heaven; when he enquired if he might advise any customers on their choice of book, I said not if he valued his life. But he seemed content with two out of three.
    With Jeff busy - well, not busy, but removed - I consulted the internet. It was not so much a case of know your enemy, because I was far from convinced that Dr Yes was my enemy, or anyone's, apart from Mother Nature's, but by finding out as much as I could it would at least enable me to talk knowledgeably about him to anyone else I came across in the course of the investigation.
    This information was not difficult to find. His whole business was built around his good looks and personality - the perfectly coiffured hair, the permanent tan, the gleaming teeth, the wrinkle - free brow, the buff frame, the suggestion of a six - pack through a thin T - shirt; he was fifty - five years old and looked twenty younger, and you might have said he was a great advert for his youth - giving procedures, save for the fact that apart from diet and exercise, it would have been impossible for him to operate upon himself. Someone else had fixed his teeth or debagged his eyes or pinned back his lugholes. Buying into his image was buying into someone else's handiwork. He was born and bred in Chicago, Illinois, of Ukrainian extraction. I found a Google image of him that appeared to be lifted from his high - school yearbook. He hadn't changed much. Maybe he hadn't needed any of the work done to start with, he just had good genes. He had flown through Brown University and Washington University, and was a board - certified plastic surgeon and celebrated fellow of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. In the mid - nineties he had married one of his patients, an Irish girl who'd gone to the States for some relatively minor plastic surgery that nevertheless hadn't been available at home; they'd fallen in love, and he'd also spotted a gap in the market. Within six months he'd set up his first clinic in Belfast, bringing a healthy dose of American chutzpah to the advertising of his services, and before very long he was the go - to man for women, and some men, throughout the island who wanted something tucked, trimmed or drained. He'd gone from strength to strength, particularly during the boom years of the Celtic Tiger, when his ultra - expensive but very quick multi - part makeovers had proved such a boon to those who felt themselves too fat, too droopy or too old to compete in the hectic Dublin social scene and didn't have time to hang around. Very soon there were competing services in the southern capital, but at least by coming to Belfast you were out of the country and less likely to bump into your social rivals while swathed in weeping bandages that kept your new ears on or screaming blue murder every time you went upstairs because your fresh tits were killing you while they bedded in.
    'Why are you looking at pictures of boobies?' Jeff asked, peering over my shoulder.
    'It's work,' I said.
    I was trying to put myself in Augustine's shoes, even while he was probably trying to put himself in my father's. He loved his wife and she had disappeared. She had undergone a number of relatively minor procedures at a clinic owned and run by Dr Yeschenkov and nobody had seen her since, apart from disputed CCTV footage from a bank cashpoint in Dublin. He had jumped to the conclusion that she had died in the clinic because to him it was the only one that made sense; he could not conceive of her running off to start a new life. He clearly did not know women as well as I did, and I hardly knew them at all. He was too emotionally involved to make a rational judgement on the likelihood of some grand conspiracy swinging into place to cover up his wife's death.
    I found a photo of the lovely Arabella on the web.
    She wasn't that lovely.
____________________________________________________________

    
Chapter 6
    
    Contrary to what I might say or do, I was, somewhere in the back of my mind, trying to be a better man for the coming trauma that constituted childbirth. It was okay for Alison; she only had to bear some extra weight and undergo a little straining that would mostly be covered by painkilling injections. She was designed for it. But I certainly wasn't. I was about to go through the kind of upheaval that rid the earth of dinosaurs. I did want to contribute something to the whole process, and part of that was showing her that I was capable of using my initiative without being prompted. She was always in favour of me dealing with a problem by physically confronting it, not seeking a solution through a third party. She knew that I believed that if I looked pathetic enough for long enough, somebody else would do it for me. Now I was going to prove that I could do things off my own bat. I'd gotten
    on perfectly well before Alison, and I'd continue to get along well after her. It was just this sticky bit in the middle I had to get through.
    I lifted the phone. I looked down at the number I'd written on the notepad before me. I punched it in. Although, obviously, what with my brittle bones, I didn't really. I pressed gently. After a few moments a bright, upmarket voice, but with a hint of Eastern Europe, said, 'Good morning, the Yeschenkov Clinic.'
    I needed to satisfy myself that Dr Yes wasn't hiding anything. The medical records that had been released to Augustine were still with his last solicitor, who wouldn't release them until he paid his bill. Obviously I wasn't going to pay it for him, and the clinic wasn't going to release them to me, a bookshop owner, or issue fresh ones to Augustine, whom they had a restraining order against, so I would have to find out what there was to find out by doing what I did best - I was a criminal proctologist, shining a light into dark places where nobody really likes to look.
    'Yes, I'd like to enquire about the possibility of having one of your makeovers.'
    'Absolutely, sir. Could I have your name, please?'
    'George.'
    'George? And your surname?'
    'Pelecanos.'
    His new novel had just come in, and I had a business and its reputation to protect.
    'Like the writer?' she asked, unexpectedly.
    'Ahm, yes.'
    'I understand completely, sir. Many of our clients prefer the cloak of anonymity. Though I should stress that this is just like going to your own doctor; it's absolutely confidential. Perhaps I could take your phone number and ...'
    'I'd prefer if you didn't.'
    'Perhaps your e - mail ...'
    'No, she checks them as well. You see, it's to be a surprise for my wife.'
    'So it's your wife who will be having the . . . ?'
    'No, it's for me, I'm the bog - ugly one.'
    'Well, I'm sure you're not. But I understand completely, sir, what a wonderful idea.'
    'I just want to come in and have a chat, see what's involved.'
    'Yes, sir, absolutely. A consultation with Dr Yeschenkov. Now I'm afraid there is a charge for that. Fully redeemable if you do join our programme.'
    'How much would that be?'
    'That would be just four hundred and ninety - nine pounds.'
    'I mean for the consultation.'
    'Yes, sir. Would you like me to check for an appointment?'
    I decided to think of it as an investment. 'Yes, absolutely.'
    'All right, then! Let me see. How about the twenty - fourth
    'That's too ...'
    '...of May. That's the earliest we have. I'm afraid he's a very busy man.'
    'So you've, ahm, nothing today, then?'
    'No, sir, I'm afraid
    'I could just like pop in and show him my head.'
    'I'm sorry, sir, that's impossible.'
    'Just a quick once - over; he could give me an estimate.'
    'Sir . . .'
    'It's kind of urgent. What about tomorrow? I'll be passing your place around lunchtime. I could just jump up and down at his window and he could give me the thumbs - up or the thumbs - '
    'Sir! Dr Yeschenkov is not even working tomorrow.'
    'Well you would say - '
    'Sir, he'll be playing golf and under strict instructions not to be - '
    'Well maybe I'll run into him at the club
    'Oh. You're a member at Malone too, sir?'
    'Absolutely.'
    I was playing her like a glass harp.
    'Well that's different. And he does actually do a special rate for fellow members. It's a wonderful club, isn't it, sir? Play there myself, very active ladies' membership. What's your handicap?'
    'Calipers,' I said, and hung up.
    I'd wrung the information out of her like a hamster in a mangle. Now I could seek out Dr Yes at the golf club and quiz him about Arabella's mysterious disappearance without having to enter his lair or pay that frankly ridiculous fee for a consultation.
    The phone rang and I said, 'Hello, No Alibis, Murder is Our Business.'
    And the same woman's voice said, 'I'm sorry, we seemed to get cut off. What were you saying about calipers? And you're from No Alibis? I love that shop!'
____________________________________________________________

    
Chapter 7
    
    Let me explain why I took Pearl, for that was her name, for coffee. First of all, in chatting to her on the phone I realised that although she claimed to be a crime fiction aficionado, she was all at sea when it came to her actual choice of books. She needed help, she needed guidance. For God's sake, she was still reading Patterson! It is my primary function in this difficult world to steer those who are hopelessly lost towards the light. I am a beacon. A saviour of souls. But I'm not a literary snob, not even for my chosen genre. Yes, of course there are heavyweights out there who are very good, but I'm just as much a champion of pulp fiction or dark and witty noir or even grandmotherly cosies, as long as they don't feature animals who actually physically contribute to the solving, of a case. It's my job to match the right book to the right reader. Also, and perhaps more importantly, she was
    Dr Yeschenkov's gatekeeper, and in meeting her and engaging her in friendly chat I would surely gain an insight not only into him, but also into the circumstances surrounding the disappearance of the lovely Arabella. I had played her once, I would play her again.
    She was warm and friendly and fascinated on the phone, and in retrospect, I have to admit, I was a little flattered. Our conversation was continually interrupted, however, by her having to answer calls on her switchboard. In response I also disappeared several times, pretending that I had to deal with a customer.
    She said, 'It's lovely talking to you, but impossible!'
    'I know,' I said. 'Sorry, a bit hectic here too.' Thankfully she couldn't actually see or hear the tumble - weed. 'Do you know what I should do? I should pick out some books for you. Take a look at them, no obligation to buy.' She laughed. I was so good at this. 'Why don't you pop in at lunch time?'
    'I'd love to - but I only get half an hour and that's barely enough for coffee and a sandwich. Actually, I usually go to that Starbucks just near you.'
    'Well tell you what, I could pop across with them.'
    'Really? Would you do that? That would be marvellous.'
    I was pretty marvellous. 'How will I recognise you?' I asked.
    'Don't worry,' she said, I'll recognise you. You'll be carrying books. About one?'
    'About one.'
    'Marvellous. It's a date.'
    I have to admit, I got a little glow inside when she said that, although obviously she meant nothing by it.
    I was, I suppose, at a slight disadvantage, because I had no idea what she looked like. Not only would I be carrying books, but as a customer of No Alibis she undoubtedly already knew me to see, whereas I forget my customers as soon as they leave, and occasionally while they're still there. It was, however, reasonable to assume she would not look like a dog's dinner, given that she was the first person people would see when they came along to Dr Yeschenkov's clinic for an estimate, and if she looked like she'd been beaten with the ugly stick, potential customers would probably change their minds as soon as they saw her. On the other hand, if she was a real stunner, I would have remembered her being in the shop. What I did know was that she sounded funny and bubbly, had said she wasn't into horror or gore or any of the more explicit authors, but that Christie bored her and she never quite 'got' any of the Scandinavians. Her tastes seemed to quite mirror mine, so selecting what I felt was right for her wasn't a problem. I picked up an Elmore Leonard, a Robert B. Parker, a Pelecanos, for obvious reasons, and, a little out of left field, Graham Greene's Our Man in Havana. I fixed my remaining hair and scooted across to Starbucks a little before one, so that I could have exactly the coffee I needed ordered and delivered before she arrived in case she thought I was in any way weird. I work my way through the menu once a month and any deviation leads to chaos and confusion, particularly in the paperwork that scrupulously records my intake. I couldn't afford to have her arrive first and buy me something out of sequence.
    I was studying a leaflet about their East African coffee, and how for every one - pound bag of it they were contributing to a global fund for the treatment of those living with Aids on that continent, and thinking how little I cared about that fact, when her now familiar voice said. 'This must be you?'
    It was indeed me, and it was indeed her.
    And she was the MOST BEAUTIFUL CREATURE ON GOD'S EARTH.
    Beaming down at me.
    She had luxuriously long black hair, a sprinkle of freckles on her pure white cheeks beneath deep - pool green eyes and above a smile dazzling enough to make Mormons jump off cliffs. She was gloriously free of make - up and wore a top that revealed nothing but suggested everything.
    I just nodded, stunned, and she put her hand out and said, 'Hi, it's me, Pearl. Pearl, hi.'
    Although I am normally loath to shake anyone's hand, I made an exception. She was not the sort of woman that bugs would exist on. They would give her a pass; they would say not much point in hanging around here, she's out of our league.
    I said, eventually, 'Let me get you a coffee. What do you fancy ... ?'
    She glanced up at the menu before saying: 'I'll have what you're having.' I ordered. As I waited at the delivery desk, Pearl picked up the books I'd left on the table, and studied their covers, and then flipped them over to read the back. She smiled up at me again. 'Fantastic, fantastic, I can't wait to get into them.'
    I smiled back.
    I felt glad to have landed on this planet. I returned to the table.
    I said, 'Pearl's a lovely name; you don't hear it much these days.'
    'Mum always loved it.'
    'Mother of Pearl.'
    'Usually I get Pearl's a singer.'
    'The only other Pearl I know is . . .' And I tapped the Robert B. Parker book. 'Spenser's dog in this .. .'
    'Are you comparing me to a dog?'
    I laughed. I reddened. I was thinking, if you're a dog, you're the most beautiful dog I've ever seen. She burst into laughter.
    'I'll take that as a compliment,' she said.
    'Did I say that out loud?'
    Under the table, her foot touched mine.
    It was just an accident.
    
    
    We were on our second coffee. I was still on menu. She had listened, fascinated, to my views on the
    current state of crime fiction, and to assessments of the career of Leonard and the television work of Pelecanos, and to my explanation - but not justification, definitely not justification - for the Greene. The master himself might have dismissed Our Man as merely an entertainment, but sometimes authors can be too close to their works. In my humble opinion, it is a much better novel than any of his 'worthies'. I was on top form; she could have listened to me all day, I'm sure, but I was there for a reason. She handed over twenty pounds for the books. I waited while she rifled her handbag for the additional fifteen pence. Once that business was satisfactorily completed, I moved on to the equally pressing reason for my having lured her into my home from home in the first place.
    I said, 'I can't believe you've been in the shop before. I'm sure I would have remembered you.'
    'Most times there's an older woman working there? To tell you the truth, she was a bit scary. I never stayed long.'
    'That would be Mother. She's no longer with us.'
    'You mean she's . . . passed on?'
    'Not yet. As the Stranglers used to sing, she's "Hanging Around". She's in a home for the very, very annoying. Actually, though, we do have someone in common.'
    'Really? Who?'
    'Name of Augustine W - '
    'Wogan! Oh God, how do you know . . . ?' She tutted. 'Of course! How silly of me. He's a crime writer. Though I've never read one of his books, and now I'm quite sure I never want to. What a pain in the neck!'
    'He is, isn't he? And he's currently eating me out of house and home.'
    'He's not! Oh, how awful! How did that happen?'
    'Well he came into the shop all ranting and raving, and I kind of felt sorry for him. I'm sure you've gathered how passionate I am about crime fiction, and he is a bit of a legend, so I thought I'd do the old guy a favour seeing as how he was so distressed and had nowhere else to put his head down. Tell you the truth, I wish I'd never bothered.'
    'Oh, I don't envy you. I mean, yes, poor man, but honestly, the trouble he's caused! He's been scaring our customers away and I've had to phone every pizza company in Belfast and tell them to stop delivering to us because we haven't ordered any. He's a menace.'
    'He's convinced his wife
    'I know! But what does he think we've done with her, buried her under the patio? Honestly! She's a perfectly nice woman, she had her procedures, everything went like clockwork and she looked wonderful. Tell you the God's truth, after being pampered for a few weeks, the prospect of returning to him would put me on the first plane to South America as well!'
    'You think that's where she is?'
    'I've no idea. Though I have to say, there's a lot of sitting around recovering in what we do, and I couldn't help but notice that Arabella - lovely name, don't you think? - was reading a teach - yourself - Portuguese book. Now, what do you think, is that a clue? Brazil, maybe?'
    'Or Angola. Or Cape Verde. Or Guinea - Bissau. Or Mozambique. Or Macau. Or East Timor.'
    She blinked at me for a little bit, and then said, 'Or Portugal.'
    And I said, 'Oh shit,' without really meaning to, because I happened to have glanced up, and there at the counter, just taking delivery of two frappuccinos, one of them undoubtedly for me, was Alison; and in that instant she looked round, and spotted me, and was halfway towards a smile when she realised I wasn't alone. The staggering beauty of the woman I was with seemed to strike her like a metaphorical brick to the face. The humour drained out of her and she just looked shocked and mortified in the same breath, neither of which stopped her from crossing the couple of metres to our table. My mouth dropped open as she glared at me, and I vaguely pointed at Pearl and mumbled something like, 'Alison ... I wasn't . . . this isn't. . . this is Pearl. . .', and it must have made some sort of sense, because she responded instantly with, 'I don't give a flying fuck, you two - faced fuck face.' And then she flung her coffee at me, and I would have been burned, but Starbucks put their tops on really well, so it just hit me in the face, which was like being punched, especially with my brittle bones, and even though it wasn't really sore I let out a little yelp, a learned reaction to the slings and arrows of everyday life, and then Alison was away, storming out the way only an enraged, hormonal and heavily pregnant woman can, even though she was only three months gone.
    Pearl said, 'Ooops.'
    And I said, 'She works with me.'
    'Don't worry,' she said. 'I know who she is. You're thinking about having surgery to make her find you more attractive.' She reached across the table and put a hand on my arm. 'She'll understand once you explain. But listen to me. I've taken a good long look at you. And no amount of surgery could make you look any more attractive.' It sat in the air for what seemed like an eternity, during which my heart sank to the pits of hell. Wasn't she saying that I was the ugliest man on the planet? But then she squeezed my arm, and her touch was so soft. 'I think you're just lovely as you are.' Our eyes met for a perfect moment, and then she moved her hand away. 'It's probably time I got back to work.' She .stood and gathered up her books and I wanted to say, stay, just a little bit longer, but before I could she had opened her purse and taken out a business card and set it down and said, 'Why don't you give me a wee call sometime? My mobile's on there too,' and she smiled that smile and walked away.
    I watched her go.
    Everything had happened so quickly.
    When she had slipped from sight, leaving only her scent and the outline of her bottom on the armchair opposite, I picked up the card she had so recently caressed and read what it said:
    
     THE YESCHENKOV CLINIC
     Pearl Knecklass
____________________________________________________________

    
Chapter 8
    
    Alison was a jealous, moody cow and I was quite prepared not to speak to her for the rest of her life. We could communicate through our respective solicitors. I wouldn't demand visitation rights with the child even if she produced proof it was mine. Children are overrated. If I wanted to see it, I could stand in her shrubbery at night and watch through the window the way I usually did.
    Then I saw her opposite No Alibis, waiting to cross the traffic.
    So, another showdown.
    She didn't scare me. But mostly to protect my property, I put my hand on the mallet beneath the counter. It used to be a meat cleaver, but that was too dangerous. You could cut someone's head off with a cleaver. With a mallet you would just flatten anything that stuck out, like a nose. I didn't necessarily want to flatten
    Alison's nose, but I was prepared to, and just about had the strength, thanks to the steroids I'd been taking for the past ten years. You wouldn't necessarily notice my muscle definition but you could tell by the size of my penis, which had shrunk further. Alison said that size wasn't everything, and I was in a fortunate position to agree with her, particularly when applied to bookshops.
    She opened the door and gave me a bright smile and said, 'So how did it go?'
    'How did what go?'
    'Your meeting.'
    'I believe you were there. I believe you threw coffee at me and called me a two - faced fuck face.'
    'Ah, I was only putting on an act. You're so easy. Jeff told me where you were and I came across to offer moral support and to take a gander at her, working for a plastic surgeon and all. She's a bit of a beauty, isn't she? Well out of your league.'
    It was a double bluff, because I can read people, years of training, and I'd seen the fear on her face and the terror in her eyes at the thought of losing me, and you don't hurl a steaming cup of coffee at someone and hit them in the face with it as an act. You could scald someone.
    And she said, 'I couldn't have scalded you with an iced coffee, halfwit.'
    And I said, 'Did I say all of that out loud?'
    She ran her finger along the counter top, checking for dust, which was just ridiculous. 'She was gorgeous, though, wasn't she? So skinny she only needs one eye. And isn't a girl allowed to be a teensy - weensy bit jealous? After all, you're my man.' I snorted, although, actually, I liked the sound of that. 'So, did you think she was fantastically sexy and lovely?'
    'She was all right. It was work.'
    'Did she not look a bit pinched?'
    'Not that I noticed.'
    'Like her skin was tied up behind her neck and all you'd have to do is snip the knot and her whole face would fall into her chest, which, incidentally, appeared to be pointing upwards. A sixteen - year - old would be lucky to pull that one off.'
    'I wasn't aware of her pulling anything off.'
    'Yeah, you wish.'
    I said, 'Is there a point to this conversation, or did you come over to apologise for your appalling behaviour?'
    'Apologise for what?'
    'Throwing . . . and calling .. . and embarrassing me in front of an informant.'
    'That was nothing; you should see me when I'm angry.'
    'You're really selling yourself. You're going to end up an old maid.'
    'How can I be an old maid when I'm carrying your child?'
    'So you say.'
    We both sighed.
    If I'd had a single customer, he or she would have been embarrassed by the exchange. Fortunately, I did not. And unfortunately. Times were hard and getting harder; I needed to get on with finding the lovely Arabella and start on my quest to ruthlessly exploit Augustine's back catalogue and treasured fourth instalment.