 More than 30 years after Congress set a goal of clearing the pollution-caused haze that obscures scenic vistas at some of America 's wildest and most famous natural places , progress is still slow in coming . 
Saturday marks the deadline for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to approve most state plans aimed at curbing pollution from coal-fired power plants and industrial sources to improve visibility at 156 national parks and wilderness areas such as Shenandoah , Mount Rainier and the Grand Canyon . 
The agency has n't formally approved any state plans or come up with its own , as required , and wo n't do so by the deadline . 
" We will not have final federal plans in place by Jan. 15 , " the agency said in an email late Friday . The agency said it has proposed partial approval of Idaho 's plan , a partial federal plan for New Mexico and a federal plan for the Four Corners area on tribal land . 
The agency added that " there is progress in every state toward visibility improvements , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " 
" Here 's a program intended to clean up skies of the nation 's most pristine areas . It has been pushed aside for too long and must be made a top-tier priority , " said Stephanie Kodish , attorney for the non-profit National Parks Conservation Association . The group plans next week to file a notice of intent to sue the EPA for missing the regulatory deadline . 
Nearly three-quarters of states failed to meet an initial 2007 deadline to submit plans requiring decades-old facilities that contribute to haze at parks to update old equipment . So far , only 34 states have done so . 
Until states file plans and the EPA approves them , companies are n't obligated to make changes under the haze rule . The EPA , however , says other clean air rules have provisions to protect parks and wilderness areas . 
We " are working with the other states to get their plans submitted and approved as quickly as possible , " the EPA emailed in response to AP questions . The EPA says it is taking the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Oklahoma , for example , the EPA is likely to reject a proposal , state officials say , after the state determined it was n't cost-effective to require six coal-fired units there to install scrubbers . The EPA says such devices would cut sulfur dioxide by one-third . 
" We believe that our plan makes sense for Oklahoma , " said Skylar McElhaney , a spokeswoman with the state Department of Environmental Quality . 
The regional haze results from sulfates and nitrates from coal-fired power plants and industrial boilers , as well as automobiles , carbon from fires , soot and windblown dust . The high cost of controlling emissions , legal battles , the complexity of rules , industry resistance and competing clean air rules have slowed progress in clearing it . 
Haze-causing pollution continues to obscure scenic vistas that draw millions of visitors to parks and wilderness areas throughout the country . In eastern parks , average visibility has dropped from 90 miles to between 15 and 25 miles , while visual range in the West has been reduced from 140 miles to between 35 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established a national goal to restore visibility in protected areas to conditions that would exist naturally , without pollution . 
" When you think of national parks , you think of clean and clear air , " said John Bunyak , policy chief of the National Park Service air resources division . " If you load up the kids in the family van and drive thousands of miles to the Grand Canyon and ca n't see the bottom of the canyon , that to me is a problem . " 
Reducing pollutants to improve visibility also can yield public health benefits , the EPA said . Fine particles that cause haze are linked to serious health problems , such as aggravated asthma , heart attacks and premature death . 
The NPCA , the National Park Service , U.S. Forest Service and other groups have pushed states to consider the tough pollution controls such as scrubbers or technology that works like a car 's catalytic converter to filter nitrogen oxides. 
Installing such devices , however , costs hundreds of millions of dollars , and industry officials say it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are economic drivers in many states . Companies say they 're trying to balance improving visibility while ensuring energy reliability and protecting customers from huge rate hikes . 
Even some states have concluded it 's too expensive to require for some facilities , preferring alternatives such as low-sulfur coal . 
" It 's understandable that states are having a hard time meeting EPA demands when doing so comes at great costs to consumers , " said Paul Seby , an attorney in Denver , who represents coal producers and power companies . The EPA is requiring more of the states than is allowed under the haze rule , he said . 
The rule " targets the oldest and the dirtiest coal plants , " said Jeremy Nichols , energy program director for WildEarth Guardians . " We have the technology to do better . " 
By June , the EPA is under a court-deadline to approve state plans or come up with its own for California , Colorado , Idaho , New Mexico , North Dakota , Oklahoma , and Oregon , after the group sued . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have questioned whether some overestimated the costs of installing pollution devices and whether their plans make enough progress . Haze over Big Bend National Park in Texas or Voyageurs National Park in Minnesota , for example , would n't be eliminated for more than a century . 
Park and forest officials told Washington state last summer that its plan worsens air quality at North Cascades National Park and Glacier Peak Wilderness . The state 's latest analysis , however , disputes that based on updated modeling . 
In Oregon , faced with $500 million in retrofits proposed , Portland General Electric Co. has proposed shutting down the state 's only coal-fired power plant in Boardman , Ore . by 2020 . The company has struck a balance between reducing pollution and ensuring energy reliability , said Dave Robertson , PGE vice president for public policy . 
At Shenandoah National Park in Virginia , visitors can only see on average about 12 miles , or one-tenth what it should be under natural conditions . 
" Historically , our claim to fame was to see the Washington Monument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Skyline Drive , said Jim Schaberl , park air quality manager . " It 's a rare 