



There you go. A collective evil of selfishness just has exposed another dimension of corruption. It's now a pandemic of "covid 19 certificate" for commoners rather than the covid 19 itself.


You are right,




This is very important report which will be helpful to find the cirrupted person who are really involved there




This is a prime example of bureucratic vandalism ....what drives such crass ignorant behaviour in a 'seat of learning'? With the Fine Art College next door, why the faculty and students do not stop such negligence from happening!!


Art, craft and culture appreciation? Those enlightened souls have long gone.




omg


Great educated civilian of our poor Bangladesh !!!!




Save doctor, save patient.




What a mismanagement? Very ridiculous!! All responsible in this regard should be come under trial!!




Please arrange to increase more production of handsanitizers, PPE, Masks, Disinfectant Chemicals, through the National and Multilnational Pharmaceutical companies in Bangladesh.Thanks for your initiatives to increase all essential medicines, as the Head of the Drug Administration.




Great







whats the benefit for taking money?








It is being done in Cantonment and all DOHS area since long. Even money is being taken from individuals going by walking in the name of Pass.


Where?


No Dhaka Cantonment is not imposing it currently for human or vehicle movement from Soinik Club to Kochukhet market. And Dhaka Cantonment is a different scenario that is not a public place.






And after some days Manik Mia avenue will also be occupied at night to sleep.


Instead of stopping them now, they will waste public money to remove the built slipways. Otherwise, what fun would it be?




How dare someone from America who consume excess energy with air conditioned houses, manicured golf courses, heated homes, abundance of food wastage moralise Bangladeshi when some Bangladeshi are living hand to mouth. For example Americans as a total population eat a total of 815 billion calories of food each day: roughly 200 billion more than needed – enough to feed 80 million people. This is just for food, when you factor in the energy consumption the abuse to the climate by US is catastrophic. Alice G Wells and the US should help Bangladesh resolve the humanitarian issue in Rakhine state, she has no grounds to lecture Bangladesh on energy use.




Cops have sometimes been planting yaba in to frame people in. Now they have opportunities to plant ice in to frame some innocent in.


It's frightening that the notorious "Ice" made it's way to Bangladesh


It's frightening that the notorious "Ice" made it's way to Bangladesh




Railway authority and Metro rail authority should work together to workout a holistic plan. MmTH should accommodate metro terminal for smooth transit from one mode to other.


Railways should show sincerity & cooperate with metro authorities. This is a national project, & should not be held hostage to petty departmental interests.




good


The captions for the 2 pictures need to be swapped.
Extra care should be taken for proper language or word selection, tense, etc.




Great plan... I hope Dhaka Metro Rail will convert into reality very soon..




It was a dream of Bangladesh that once we would have MRT like Singapore or other countries. The dream is going to come true soon.  Bangladesh.




Thes two brothers hsould be tried under a Special Summary Trial Court, to punsih for their crimes, committed being the vital office bearers of the historic two organizations of the Faridpur Districts. These two have discridited the images of these organization and the current govt. At any cost these two should be arresetd for facing the tough legal actions, confiscating all of their illegally gotton money, properties and assets by the govt.




Saudi Arabaia will soon be punished by Allah for not entertaining Muslims




This child should be in a loving home and going to school. It is UNCRC says that children and young people have the right to education. Bangladesh government should be held accountable for this one child. The Western government should do more to lift millions of poor people out from poverty by stopping the willful frittering of scarce resources. Right now in the West the Western nations will celebrate Christmas. It is a long celebration that lasts about a month. People squander huge amounts of energy with every house lit up “to the nines”. People exchange copious amount of cards, most of which are not the recycle type as it is filled with glitter and plastic elements. Trees are cut and not replaced with equal quantities. Finally presents are exchanged in gift wrap, again this is usually not the recycle type as it is filled with glitter, and synthetic material.




It is sad to see Bangladesh is forming an alliance with a murderous regime which violates all human rights of its citizens and others. The Crown Prince can order the murder of a journalist like Khasogjji and then live in impunity. Bangladesh does not need the Saudi money or their thoroughly corrupt regime's help in any way. Why get in bed with these murderers????




Thanks




Well declaration, by these newly appointed ministers. Please try to prove and implement, apply your sincere effeorts to make Bangladesh a 100% corruption, neopotism, terrorism and favouritism free country, as dreamt by the Father of the Nation, and the repeated comitment of his proud daughter Sheikh Hasina, the Prime Minister of our Independent Bangladesh. All these sincere and devoted ministers will have to work hard and make this country a peaceful, stable and developed country with its people happy and prosperous, terorism free nation. Dont resort to any sorts of undue misuse of power, public money for your and your near and dear's benefit. Don't let the BNP- Jamati  planted anti liberation gangstars of Kamal led so called alliance appear on the streets, with any vague and useless agendas, against this government to divert the attention of the common people to exploit them from a stable pragmatic wishes and benefit from this newly installed government of the daughter of the Father of the Nation. Be remain strict and determined against any sorts of corruption, nepotism and favouritsm. Let the black stigma be removed permanently and for good as Bangladesh was ranked globally 3 times corrupt country,by the BNP- Jamat  corrupt regimes. Wishing you all the best and success in yours efforts of begining a Good Mission of Commitment and sincere Pledges. Now will be the begining of your action of implementing your pledges, made towards the nation today.




If they are guilty simply they should be hanged




This letter should be issued earlier, it is too late as so many doctors lost by nation.




if we see police version of Rifat murder case,Minni is the main perpetrator.On the other hand,if we believe on The daily Star report, we witness that Minni is innocent. Now my question is, whom we gonna believe ?




Nothing new in this country. I am suffering ..... Till now


Very sad..


What a sad! How do we rely on the rule of law? Investigation officers including those involved must be punished for their negligence, otherwise it would be happening. The victim must be compensated.


And THAT's ALL, your honour ! 17 years wiped out from an innocent man's life, his family suffered undeserved ordeals, and they DO NOT RECEIVE ANY COMPENSATION, no apologies from the state for the miscarriage of justice by the very sentinels of law and order. This unbelievable case MUST be itself investigated and and the civil and criminal liabiliteis apportioned to all those who are the handlers - the 2 IOs, lower court judge. And here comes the sermon for a QUICK ,exemplary and severe punishment to these law minions for obverting and subverting the course of justice., ruining more than an innocent soul, more than his family, they ruined the system of justice and thepeople's faith therein. SMH /// 17 /10/2019




It's looks like living with beast in a cage of wild animal...




brutality




The High Court has ordered the BTRC in April 2019 to submit a report after measuring the level of radiation emitted by mobile phone towers and examining its effect on environment and health. We dont know whether BTRC has submitted the report or not.




Shame on Modi. Long live united India and we welcome the Indian people.


This is very strange that Modi the notorius communal leader of Indian history has been invited to attend the birth aniverssary of  whose ideology was to have a non-communal Bangladesh. Government is surely insulting  by inviting Modi as the chief guest




People of Bangladesh rejected him any ways. We do not want  fundamentalist in our celebrations.


Good for BD. BD is not welcome for a such a Islam bashar and Muslim killer. Who ever is welcoming this heineious guy should be punished as well.




These batards frame innocent people for drug dealing and let the real criminals go? May they and their family members suffer horrible deaths from overdosing.




We are all aware of it. And know it very well who are involved in it. Why no remedial measures have been taken so far. 10 years is a long time. Kolkata has solved their waterlogging problem which was more severe and comlicated to resolve. If they can: Why not us?


Corrupted money funnelled out side the country. There must be 100s of Shahed Karim, Ron and Don and Sabrina... etc in every other field. It is amazing when the country can build elevated expressway and it cannot fix drainage issue. Again rain water is blessing for us, this is fresh water source. How much money you spend to pull out ground water when you have rivers and rain water to use to save our ground water resources and save energy bill.




Is it the job of the ACC to take down any one who speaks their mind that the rulers don't like ?




Nice




These signs and symbols and symptoms are the characteristics of autocratic government as the management philosopher stated.The autocratic govt feel fear everything in any natural disasters.




We have achieved a record level on rice production.
In this case, why rice will be over priced and need to import?




The Jewish state, and the Hindu state, is now poisoned for the world, as long as the Christian world does not try to get the fair rights of others from these two states, they will continue to carry out terror activities with the money and resources of Muslims, Christians, and many other religions. The state may be relieved by taking away the rights of others.





Allah can all kind of thing when he wanted.




Government decesion is simply sabotage what total impact must be dreadful ! While Covid 19 rampantly surges elsewhere the country's & everyday huge numbers of people's being infected & the deaths rate surpasses all previous records


They took good decision.




In modern age knowing mother tongue is NOT a must for university education but it helps However, without knowing mother tongue well no education is complete and higher education, if any, remains confused. Our problem is bad primary, secondary and high school education where nothing is properly taught because teachers are ill-educated, poor and , most of the students are so. Our whole system is bad, corrupt and badly managed. The cause is again due to poverty, bad politics and no proper management.




LOVE YOU MOM...


Rape and murder of females, girls, some of which are mothers is happening at an alarming rate in Bangladesh. Bangladesh is a muslim country. Our menfolks mentality has to change and must change, we need for respect females, girls and mothers.


THANK YOU  .


Daughters-in-law should also respect their mothers-in-law.


Years of ill educated stereotypes passed by mothers, fathers and society in bangladesh that male are strong and leaders has lead to a oppressed and downtrodden female. Now let's change this, because our young boys and girls will have parity on the streets, our males and females will be equal in the workplace, at home both males and female will share the housework and in society for years to come the youth of today will have parity.


A dormant mother is almost always there in a girl of any age. Decaying social values, lack of parental commuication, mind altering drugs are responsible for erosion of moral values and respect in general. Today there are NO social leaders to lead the youth.




