



Special demand-led, market-oriented skills development / technical education should replace our traditional unproductive and clerical education, so that we become a self-producing country and reduce dependence on volatile income options. Our youth force is an asset and we should utilize this force for productive work - learning from China may be a worthy source of experience. If our youth force becomes productive source then our volatile economy will become a stable one for continued growth. Shazzad




The findings derived from only four family owned groups can be generalised for whole Bangladesh. The sample is too small to comment.




Nice person.


Congrats 🥳




You should keep the academics in the panel too, or else you cannot minimize the gap.




It's a good news that RCC is getting rightly prepared to conduct the required safety and remediation coordination jobs on its won when both Accord and Alliance finally end their over 5 years stay here before the end of this year. We wish them a happy good bye and the RCC a frictionless and efficient undertaking of their jobs.




Is there any plan for introducing them in South Asia?




Covid-19 has seen more and more digitisation. Banks,insurance, and shopping are just a few that require less premises in the West. Bangladesh will also experience more online purchases, banking and working from home if possible.




Commend you for weaving a profoundly educative article on where the success lies in product marketing. The budding etrepreuners and busisenss executives will benefit immensely from the article. It twill help them put their marketing acts together successfully. Also, it's great to know the tremendous success you have achieved in your professional life by strictly practicing the basic marketing tenets and human qualities. Congratulations!!! I am your IBA batchmate ASM Jahangir. Will try to get in touch with you when I visit Dhaka next.




The effictiveness of it would depend on how fast it is disbursed and used for the purpose of containing the disease now, in particular, in South Asia.




Sustaining the training is needed strongly for the recovery of the post-pandemic economy.




The objective of ADB president is unlikely to protect nations from debt traps but more likely to prevent China to expand BRI.




The IDRA should also be need to appointed Administrator in general insurance company to check Commission related anomalies.




Very good news for the Nation!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!




Fiscal policies can generate growth. However, in countries with high levels of government corruption, bribes and graft then monetary policy can be a wise decision. Bangladesh has repeatedly been near the top of international examination of corruption. I always believe in the people, innovation, entrepreneurship as the driving force of economic growth. However, this needs to be tempered with redistribution of income via taxes as businesses are profit motive and not always concerned with the welfare of the population.




Why the business should pay advance tax on the imports and raise burden on the consumers? What benefit we will get from the payment of advance tax except rise of cost for all of us?




It is a very good writeup for time demanding.




As of December last year, loan disbursement by Bank Asia stood at Tk 259  , which is 58 per cent of the total outstanding loans given out by all lenders through agent banking.

Was this checked prior publishing?


Indeed a bright spot in a cloudy sky.




Is a good sign that agriculture lending is not laging behind the necessity of loans for the farmers. Why then the banks are failing to do similarly for the industrial and the other sector(s)?




Will that get rid of the thieves and stray cats from the terminal?




Transport and road travel in bangladesh is a menace. Air travel in bangladesh is surprisingly good.




Our prime minister is so kind, she has granted Tk 5000 for each Mosque in Bangladesh, I implicitly trust her Fair judgement, she will  do the needful to revive the Airline industries,
Regards, Capt.Rokon Chowdhury




Diit Alamgir Hossain Munna
mud484390@gmail.com




China has money - why not take their help?


Bangladesh can benefit immensely from the South Asian and SouthEastern development and mega projects already in place in Bangladesh from Japan and China. However, Bangladesh should be friendly to all nations and enemy to none this includes amicable Australia. Economic fiscal spending and investment will help the fallouts from Covid-19, the desperately poor, the students, and the economy at large.






Bangladesh could be a developed country in no time if its government were good.




Yes, three things should and could be done: (a) moving to increased use of synthetic fibres, (b) moving to increased production of higher value items and (c) promoting the "green- product" branding in the global market.


This crying, begging, requesting and complaining about the price drop has been going on for last few years. Such amateur and unprofessional technics will not yield in any price increase. You need to up your negotiation game by several folds because you are dealing with world class procurement experts employed by the global brands to reduce costs.


You are looking at one side of the puzzle, in recent years, west african countries and south east asian countries have been developing a competitive advantage in the garments industry which is superior to that of Banlgadesh. Having more players entering the industy is causing the prices to drop. If you want to achieve a higher price for your product you need to think about a different strategy which offers more quality products at a premium price. In a globalized economy, you either have to stay competitive or deplete away and make room for others.




A great start by the new president of BGMEA! She has hit the nail on the head of the crucial internal measures needed to be taken by the local apparel industry, to face the ill practices of the international buyer's cartels. Mere appeals to fairness have done little to improve the dismal price paid by the cartels for the products they procure to resell at exorbitant profits in the world's retail markets.


Large buying houses have an unfair advantage over bangladesh SME in terms of negotiating parity, that is why they need more protection by limit pricing.




H-1B Visa must end ......we can not build middle-class in India at the expenses of the American workers.




But our local e business cheates customers,they don't play their responsibilities so there is a huge mistrust, dissatisfaction among customers to local e busines.


Intuitive analysis


Excellent Analysis!




A timely initiative. Sucess in organising the necessary finance is essential for the eventual success of SDG in the Asia pacific region by 2030.




How can we get their product Faslodex injection at Dhaka.




Australia is going down the channel of conspiracy theory, and has reprehensibly castigated China on multiple fronts. Australia will need cheap RMG Bangladesh and Vietnam are two alternative choices.




Wonderful writing by my respected MD. Wish all the airlines company also understand the points and play accordingly. None should act like a fool to get all the available passengers on board spending extra money to the traveling agent....and so one




Highly inspired to read the BSMSN being developed into one of the largest Economic Zones where the reporter has laid open the Govt's initiative to develop it into multi-faceted or multi-purpoese industrial establishments with investors from home & abroad.More pleased to hear from the Executive Chairman, despite COVID-19 pandemic, its expansion & growth rate are still uninterrupted.Looking for information from the authority. Is it located at seashore Miraswari or at nearby island Sandwip? The learned reporter was perhaps overwhelmed to see its expansion so quickly. Hence the basic information of its geographical location failed to draw his attention.Hopefully, he will not miss next time.




Thanks for sharing this wonderful information.


Well, to be honest, it is not the country or the purchase but the extension that makes the difference. Think of someone having to type a 6 letter extension. It's tough to type the whole thing, isn't it.
Similarly for .bd, it doesn't have a great combination and hence, the adoption is low.
In fact, many of the discussions on NamePros revolve around the adoption of new gTLD or cctld and a lot of them do not take off. .CO did, .IO did because of its appeal to some other community, instead of its demand in the country itself.
What's your thought on this?




possible for bangladesh


Waiting for 2030 for highly change Bangladesh economic position


Jomir uddin


We can continue to rise with a low-skill low-wage economy only for so long. Others with even lower wages can and will out-compete us as our wages grow. We have to be ready to transition to a higher-wage higher-skill economy like the East Asian countries have. But this requires better quality education than our leaders realize. Rote learning based on limited syllabus and limited set of exam questions has to give way to a more comprehensive learning that expands critical thinking of youngsters. The optimistic forecast has no chance to materialize if this significant component is not in place. There are a few encouraging private initiatives in the educational front, but the government has to play a much more supportive role in terms of policies.


Excellent economy of Bangladesh





Better not project this way. Those countries have the natural resource water. Some of them pirated water from the downstream country's ecosystems. Would this reporter understand the importance of water and the current state of this resource, he would not be this much exceedingly optimistic. It should be a natural understanding that a resource outsourced country's economy cannot be at par with resource pirating countries. It sounds like comparing apples with oranges.




Too early to predict the reshaping of global economy due to Conrona virus pandemic! It's most likely to go worse, outside China, before it is abated.


Just a copy of other news.




? Y is that so?


This is a matter of debilitating national progress and must be set right and climb a dozen notches by the next three years,  . genuine assessment and steps needed towards the right direction.
NO GRAFT Era ahead.




A bit misleading heading. was the election process in Indonesia and the Philippines four years ago was as corrupt as the one in Bangladesh?


The interview is not about politics. It is about startup, investment, eco-system growth and the like issues.




 has become so rare and so very pricy! But what about the hindus of BD? Hope the celebration goes on . Who fixes the price?




Need to export from Bangladesh to China. In this regards we take more initative from Government side




Congratulations! Richly deserved!


Congratulations ....


it is very good news if can utilize this opportunity in the proper way.




Great Achivement


Great news of setting up a fully automated dairy farm. Hearty kudos to the entreprenuers. This initiative will generate a lot of positives, including our per capita protein intake, technology and animal husbandry knowhow transfer, job creation, et all. We are inspired. Some others can also invest and emulate. We are turning the corner, sure.


Wonderful


So good EON to this noble effort.


very good we need to adapt modern farming too


More intensive farming is needed but always with good farming husbandry. The welfare of the animal is always testament credibility. Bangladesh should not also forget about GM, genetically modified farming when tested thoroughly so it increases yield and with less chance of new pathogens being introduced to the food chain. This does not mean traditional small scale farming, local farming should be neglected. There is evidence of good wellbeing and lower cost especially transportation cost. This is the same for organic farming where people trust old and trusted methods of farming. Again, said to increase wellbeing, but organic farming always tends to cost a lot more. However, Bangladesh may need to increase crop yields to feed its large population so GM and good intensive farming methods may need to be adopted.




Desktop Article with fingertip avaiable facts. Noway forward plan which should have been the main focus of the Article. Meaning less and carries no value for future reference.




Becoming Bangladesh the third largest importer of Apples in the world is another encouraging news of our progression. It definitly proves that people's purchasing power has increased more compare to previous time.




India never helped Bangladesh without their major interests. There are many projects in Bangladesh done by China very successfully. China is capable to work for the projects. India take help from China for their own development. India's attitude towards neighbors are very bad. When you see that your neighbors are not happy with you, it means you have basic problems.




