



Typo in the headline.


Corrected. Thanks dear reader.




They should explore phones on instalments... their phones are the most function and durable ones...




Selling bad loans bundled into financial products to Global Derivative Traders to reduce liabilities is the techniques China is learning from Western Counterparts.Quite interesting!.




AIIB would be "clean, lean and green" and China will not hold veto power like US does in World Banks and China is the major stakeholder in it.The major challenge is how to build the infrastructures in under developed areas with its finances!




good reading !


Gr8!




Thanks for the great sharing




good deal




ALL Bangladeshi Financial Institutions are in big trouble. We are lacing expertise and software to prevent this kind of attack. To upgrade all kinds of securities would save money and time.




Wish could be a part of their tem.




It is high time for BD to switch from big investments in coal powered energy (that is unsustainable) to big investments in solar energy. Solar is rapidly becoming the most economic form of energy (besides being the most sustainable already). It's a matter first of all of a choice (or a change) of energy investment policy of the country -- the investors in solar would follow in its wake.




Very informative.




Congratulations Sir


Congratulation resp smart honest and talent md sir.


Congrats!




Looking a investor for motor driving centre in cox's bazar Bangladesh




Facilities and Management needs to be improved a lot. Terminal is OK and still not running in full capacity and efficiency.


That is for sure for safety, security, comfort, logistics and so on. But we alsp NEED to modernise our thoughts to get along with the times.
Bangkok, Mumbai and Istanbul are way ahead, to name a few.


To rapidly finalise the site selection and start a speedy building of the proposed global standard 'Bangabandhu Airport' would be a timely response for Bangladesh to make now.




Some historical observers assume that the Chinese silk production followed from its knowlege gained and imported into the country by the Chinese travelers and scholars, visiting and working in the great Budhist monasteries of Bengal in the 7th and 8th centuries. Barind-region, with Rajshahi as its major centre of production, has been producing silk and silk-cloths since the ancient times.




Why is this? Only the current trade war is to blame or, is the dreaded "over capacity" of the economy?




Well done indeed!




power & gas crisis should be resolve immediately.




And what about the 'nobler' money laundering centres in Europe itself?




China is clearly ahead in the race.




A right first step towards stabilizing the paddy price to a fair level for the farmers.
Another major step is required. It is necessary now to intoduce workable agricultural insurence policy schemes for all agricultural producers of the country. This would protect the farmers and other agri-workers (and so also the food security of the country as a whole) against the vagaries of weather, price instability and increasingly frequent out of season floodings.




Start by nation wide campaigns to e l i m i n a t e waste and misuse of water!




Eco friendly development projects are a good market to invest in. Many Western economies are integrated more eco friendly development. Having foreign input in the construction projects in Bangladesh is a positive. India, China, Japan and the Western world should all contribute to Bangladesh’s ambition to reach its SDG.




Good , very positive and informative article . This info will certianly attract to FDI .




If they bring enough investments then why not allocate an industral park to the Koreans too, like it has been allowed one each dedicated to the Japanese, Chinese and Indian investors. Diversification can strengthen.




A daring interesting proposal.




And the big tobacco companies in Bangladesh -- what are they doing for pubic health?




cool




thats childish move of USA against a particular tech giant




This is a good symton for third world country like Bangladesh.




Philipine has contributary negligence,in some case deliberate neglance like opening account without reference check!




Very sad news for Bangladesh as many workers are Bangladeshi.




Our government and its people working hard to keep F investments as partnership arrangement. Well wishers for both sides.




I was under the impression that much of the stolen money from Bangladesh bank, was recovered.




Good


tnx.......


excellent article!




Go Akku go. Employing 10,000 young people probably makes a huge difference in 30,000 lives!




if China remained the top exporter of textiles in 2016, with a 37 percent share in global exports, even though its shipment declined 3 percent, the UK-based Innovation in Textiles reported citing data from the WTO then how abt bangladesh.....




Great move.




I want your phone number




Good governance is still missing in key sectors. If we can ensure proper environment for investment with security, caplital flow will be reduced to large extent.




To improve the quality of education, Bangladesh will have to work on the curriculum and ensure that teachers are accountable and examination systems work, he said.




A great initiative only if well implemented.




Good initiatives. The Govt. should look forward to make such market place for street hawkers, street foods,  shops in the cities. In some particular points in Dhaka, we can't even walk because of Street hawkers and  !




Can anyone please provide names of "seven (ISP) is to run business nationwide"? Thank you very much in advance.




It's indeed a good intiative ......




Fine









Bravo a very smart & courageous move. The nation fought for freedom so the poor will not suffer. This is a right move




Chinese financing for additional railway connection. What ever bridge to be sighted at least middle of 2018.


Was not the Padma bridge going to be finance by the Govt Of Bangladesh then why does the Bangladesh Govt need Chinese finance? So at last we need other country to finance the bridge.


The bridge itself is being financed by the government, the rail link on the other hand is likely going to be financed by the Chinese. It'd be stupid not to go for a loan if the interest is low anyways and just spend out of the treasury. in the case of a low interest loan, the bridge will essentially pay for itself as the tolls would cover the interest and the loan amount.




"lack of technology, low efficiency, obsolete equipment, single product focus, and a lack of competitiveness". No wonder for the huge losses reported. Time to turn the page. Or, retirement would be forced by greater losses.




Why there is no criminal indictment of former Chairman of this bank ? Is this because he is an Awami Leaguer ? ...NO GOOD !




Subsidies are nice, but there needs to be a way for farmers to enable themselves (insurance, group investment and farming loans), Govt. does have the field force to organize farmers, provide support services (beyond the massive and great work that the government is already doing) and also increase farmer linkage to large scale buyers. Farmers might also get better prices if there were initiatives in agro processing and value added products.






Under what capacity is it aid, what is wrong with this writer, do you know what foreign aid is and foreign direct investment or a loan for that matter is? These are loans to be repaid back to lender with interest.




BB should let use the Sukuk instrument in pvt. Islamic Banks as to Promote new investment products and should set up Sukuk regulatory Board. Prior to public demand it can be their good initive for the welfare of the country.




010 is the best choise




Great to know this.


If the news story is true, I have a good ground to feel happy. I am a GP subscriber but I never avail myself of any of its offer as I do not like to be duped.




Thank you for the news. We, GPEU is eagerly waiting for the Registration Certificate from the Registrar of Trade Unions without any delay. We are very much respectful to the current government to ensure workers' rights as per their commitment. Hope we can build positive, ideal and better Industrial Relations among GPEU, GP and Government. We are very much confident to run a registered union in Bangladesh for the greater interest of the workers, GP and our country. We can contribute socio-economic development of Bangladesh. We will prove it  .




Traficc jam can be another detriment for the business environment.




I fully agree with you Mr. Thomas




All stakehoders and users need more awareness about the benifits and sources of renowable energy. GreenTech Foundation Bangladesh is working to promore Green Banking, Green Energy and Climate Change Issues in Bangladesh.




The daily Star news paper is one word superb.




very important interview...thanks..to the daily star..


No comment.


Enjoyed reading a very prudent interview.




Logic of profit beats logic of nationalism.




A national data center for storing public and private sector data should be built using totally national resources. Not to be sounding like a conspiracy theorists but let's face the reality, there's a digital cold war going on all over the world. Governments trying to snoop in on other governments' information and everything. China might be ally, but we certainly cannot hand the contract for the country's sole and concentrated data center in the hands of a Chinese company. Are our own IT, CSE, EEE and Civil engineers not capable enough of building the data center? Do we not have enough work force? Can our own military, who's salary and overall budget is about to get a substantial increase, come up with security measures?


This is just plain retarded ... not to mention extremely dangerous. The idea of citizens using a data bank managed by the state to store digital content, personal or otherwise is absurd! The constitution provides for the right to privacy to protect us from government intrusion... stop drowning the nation in debt and focus on other projects in need of desperate attention. Health care, education, housing, etc




good




I want flat Registration cost. 2017-2018




I like hilsa fish


Not all but some Darjeeling tea.




Can’t wait to taste this in the USA!!
The  we get is frozen and tasteless!!


sounds gooood!!!! hope it wil taste good too :) all the best




Best of luck for H&M and wish to help Bangladesh to create a better textile ant garment sector...




Have your Honda 110 cc I want a bike




motorcycle sales in Bangladesh have been decreasing every year because of higher prices resulted from rising taxes and supplementary duties on import of motor parts. Higher registration fees also lead to a rise in prices.




Dear Sri me bakery and pastry chef Bangladesh




excellent news for banking sector in bangladesh




A nice cell phone indeed as describes.




I feel proud as a member of "Golden Harvest" family..




Congratulations


Congratulations sir.


Congratulations!


Congratulations!


Congratulations. ......sir
...




One of the great marketer in recent times. With his proven track record & bold leadership, IDLC will surely be a refreshed brand in financial market soon. Our best wishes with you Romel....




Good writing




Fat chance.




good




Not a negative sign.


An example pf government playing neatly into the hands of big players at the cost of thousands of poultry farmers and millions of poultry consumers.




Wonderful









I am not surprised to see the report. It is expected as we are not pushing G2G agreements to put in place. A strong political representation is inevitable here. Leadership is required. We are seriously weak in trare diplomacy.




Anticyclical agri-insurence could be adopted as a possible remedy.




Its indeed good steps taken by Indian Government . Bangladesh already is enjoying this facilties given by Indian Government under SAFTA just 4-5 years back .
BD Govt. is asking to China for DFQF for 17 products under LDC or APTA . It would be helpful greatly .




Great news. Thank you India.




"India has named eight border points to move its goods to and from Bangladesh ....., and demanded dedicated space for its goods at the ports.
In response, Dhaka said three border points could be allowed at most, and there will be no dedicated space for Indian goods at any of the ports."

It would be interesting to know if such words as "demanded" in the first sentence and "allowed" in the second sentence were actually said or used. If so, it would reflect a rather poor mode of discourse in international negotiations, or if not, a poor mode of reporting!




