



we never learnt to value our history and culture




There are only 1296 governmentd dental surgeon whole over the country. That's why Bangladeshi are being deprive of dental treatment officially. So it’s necessary and urgency to requirement 300 dental surgeon for the country as proposed by DGHS.


We have been deprive. We want Justic.


Lots of thanks to "The Daily Star" for covering such a crying need issue..i hope govt.will recruit sufficient amount of dental surgeons to ensure the dental health of our citizens.




Finally, a good initiative, better than banning PUBG.


first of all its spelled breathalyzer... second would love to see more of these in Daulatdia, so when a Poteeta tells me she loves me, I can find out is she drunk or does she mean it




If the waterway is brought back to life as the rivers and water features are a living entity Bangaldeshis will benefit immensely. Good wellbeing, pleasant landscape, increased price of houses as people like water features, less mosquitos, less disease and better standard of living.




our brother and sister who died in the accident will never come back to life to enjoy safe road system, and to attend every-day college class... oh oh my Allah cannot bear the pain in our heart.




At least we will not have any threaht from terrorism attacks. We are very certain peacefully. Like Sweden president or Austrian president carrying his luggages without any body guard at railway station. How good .Hi world we and you are secured in this country now.Any international games and events can be performed here . So don't worry.




Very interesting and thought provoking. But will the concerned authority take their lessons, feel ashamed and think of bringing some changes ? Number of imported cars must be limited including the duty free cars by some over previleged group like MPS and when even no longer an mp have to be stopped . THis creates more poverty in the povertty stricken country. General awareness of traffic rules shiould be pulicised at all levels.






perfect order by court




First make sure there are enough road markings and sign on the roads the cameras are being implemented.




I wish more photos were included.




At least they are taking some necessarysteps *sigh*


Delhi is the champion. What is Modi doing all these years? All smoke coming from Punjab after harvest season??




It is very good news that Govt constructed exclusive bicyce lane. However, if entire city is not connected through this lane, its usage will be devlaued.


very good initiative need such lane in every roads.


Just  !!! Freeing foot path is the demand.


why 6 feet whilst international standard is for 5 feet only! eventually rickshaw, van, motorbike as such will be running through these lanes


Poor condition of foot path is a BIG hurdle for common people which must be cleaned giving topmost priority. Bicycle lanes are also most essential for common mass. These will contribute to ease the present traffic jam. A lot of people will move by bicycle and feet. Rush in public transport and rickshaw will be reduced, present practice of using main roads by pedestrian (compelled due to blocked footpaths) will also be reduced and more space in the main roads will be available.


Bicycle lane is as important as the Metro Rail. Time to invest on the cycle lane :)


More bangladeshis need to get on a bike. Bikes were a cultural icon in China but with economic growth cars have become a major source of pollution in cities. In Western countries like UK cycle lanes are being built at a tremendous pace, London must have upwards of 20 km of cycle lanes in narrow roads built during the Victorian era.


The popularity of cycling as a means of commuting, exercise and a recreational activity is wonderful. The UK was never known to be cycle friendly, London is famous for old victorian narrow roads however it has managed to introduce cycle lanes.




what was their fault? let us see their literature/content please




Mr. Correspondant, Avoid the word Harijan to address to Scheduled Castes. It is prohibited by the Central Govt. in 1982.




I have a simple question to Swiss Ambassador; NO offence I mean. My question is:
When Bangladesh is going to be the "Switzerland of the East"?
Hope Bangladesh can have atleast a few banks soon like Switzerland so that Asian thieves need not travel to Switzerland with their ill earned money.




There is no second thought or consulting anyone responsible and knwledgable about trees and environment. One fine day again we shall read about Jahngirngr University doing the same destruction by educated people.
Trees and its branches/foliage takes years to grow, chopped in minutes!




fantastic




 symbol can bring peace in Bangladesh by upcoming nation election.




Well done, many thanks




May Allah grant her  .




This article is incomplete.


Good to know this kind of role.




There are only a few Multistory structure like this in the world.
A Multistory Truck Terminal is not a feasible proposal at Tejgaon.




Good idea, that is new concept DNCC, #happyEidMobarak




Thanks for development our country also many many thanks for revamp ancient playground.




Very sad. May his soul rest in peace. Hand sanitizer contains atleast 70% Alcohol which is highly inflammable. All should take note.




Dear 15 media personalities, Need relocation and birth control must for stray dogs.




They could not recover the 192 railway stingers and 220 roadway decks from the river? What a waste of public money.


Shows lack of responsibility and mismanagement


What is a 'stinger'?


A scorpion.


You can get all photos from Google Map, those days are gone when you need a phototo be taken at ground level. Get real.




We are much talked about the new stapes, But nobodies mentioned that why the Bangladesh National Building Code- BNBC does not publish the gadget even after the approval by the cabinet in 2017? What was the interest under it? who are the big fish behind it?







Case filers must be ruling party people who actually want to grab these.




Very sad




Can it dual language-Bangla and English?




The same Old Story, repeating and getting Bigger and Worse with time.




We may build weirs on the canals to slow down the excessive flow of post-storm water.




This can only happen in Dhaka University. They retained the professors but plan to expel the students now - how wonderful?  .




The incident is confusing. Is Ms. Oishee Khan Covid-19 positive or not? Based on her COVID-19 latest test result, she should either fly to London or seek medical treatment. I wish her the best.




is this an isolated incidence?




When will start e-passport?




excellent




This is the danger area. The 1897 Great Indian Earthquake, measuring 8.7 on the Richter scale, caused about 20 metres of pop-up in a few seconds along the Dauki Fault in Meghalaya. The earthquake severely damaged Sylhet & other northern towns, devastating an area of 150,000 square miles, including the region that is now in north Bangladesh. There was widespread liquefaction in the Sylhet floodplains, which would it to happen now, would bring down most buildings. Buildings in Dhaka were also destroyed. If this same earthquake happened today, it would be catastrophic. There is also evidence of regular historic strong earthquakes in the surrounding areas just north, N.E. & N.W. of Bangladesh that have affected many northern cities & towns of Bangladesh.




Congratulations sir


We are proud sir.




This is an ill motivated statement from BEZA. Hon’ble Prime Minister needs to intervene in this issue. Otherwise, I am afraid, it will become similar episode of Singur/Nandigram of West Bengal in India.









Construction looks like in good progress.




wha a brutality!




Nusrat you have gone forever but you were, you are & you will alive among us. we will never forget you because you have taught us to protest against rapists and culprits. We hope that the criminals by all means will be punished and never can be dare to do such as a brutality activity. We pray for your to Almighty Allah for your universal peace & Heaven as well as we also said that we have no speech to console your family only want to say Allah might give them having patience to endure your losing panic .  .




please see that we may suffer hungry but do not die of modified golden rice and bt-brinjal.




Death penalty is cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment. We can all think about the most heinous crime and say that deserves the dealth penalty but capital punishment could end up in the rare case killing an innocent person. Who wants this on their concious? Stop All Capital Punishment!




acid throwers should be death sentenced




May Allah bless his soul and grant him a place amongst HIS loved ones  .


RIP may Allah grant him 




We want free Maidul Islam




Must have big brothers in Dhaka.




Our prayers for the departed soul. .. please keep him in prayer on every individuals. .




salute




May your soul rest in peace.


May your soul rest in peace 




This is an awfully forbidding act...Can a father commit such a incestuous crime ? The report does not say if the father is insane, maniac or abnormal...




It should be 3.889billion rather than 3,889 billion




actually the protestors don't love their country, they are selfish people. if they love their country, they must want to establish the merit based recruitment system so that the country can be progressed in accordance with the global pace. shame on the brainless stupid people.




May Allah helps them who are victims in this accident.


Our government didn’t take harder stance to evacuate the godowns from residential area after NIMTOLI TRAGEDY.




Are the pharma factories around the country taking enough care against fire and for ensuring safety? If not, it should move right now to do so taking a page of the RMG's book of experience, before anything nearly as horrible as an incident like "Rana Plaza" may occur!




Hope he gets well soon.




Very poor journalism. This is 21st century I am sure you can provide a picture of the new train .




wonderful




Two things would be necessary before expecting a successful safe spawning of the fish stock: one, to ensure possible alternatives for the survival of the fishermen during the period of the fishing-ban, and two, to provide the fisheries depatments with enough manpower and means to inform and enforce the ban. A deficit in these respects would endanger the intended increase of the fish-wealth of the nation (through the safe-spawning programme).




You are good, man.




Inspiring for youngster also.




Why not an agreement to visa free travel for the two countries' tourists.




According permission of private TV channels or FM Radio stations, more in excess of the need, does not attest to freedom of press when there is prohibitory act of Digital Security like dracolian sword in force. And when openly the journalists cannot be daunted, the clandestine methods are deployed, and Shafiqul Islam Kazol's disappearance is a glaring example, though he was found after over 50 days in Benapole.




Thanks for reporting national crisis




result of using unskilled labour and non-coperativeness between the different authorities..




Regarding Gas supply interruption prior should informed for public safety.This is simply moral duty of the respective authority.


This heralds for a new of doing.All mosques and relegious avenues will be notified immediatelly to do miking like the death of a person.


It's better to use LPG. Most of the people in other cities and towns in Bangladesh use LPG. It is time to stop using supply gas and to say 'good bye' to it.


Should not take 24 hrs to replace a gas valve. This is ridiculous. Either a lack of skill gas workers or red tape.


Gas has been halted at Elephant Road since 15th 22:00 hours. There was no gas at my house since then .




Everybody should take the responsibility for making the situation worse




People should be religious (and should not pretend to be religious) to save the nation,




All the foot bridges are so steep that a persons of above 40 years of age are difficult to climb not to speak of people of about 80 years of age what I am and have often to trudge.




