


Since I have no friends, I wasn't tagged so I plan to take initiative:



1. Ashraful for his Windies T20 victory that is making me fill with mawkish sentiment

2. Syed Rasel for being the first and only facebook friend to add me back on social media

3. Nazza! - for his brutality against Pakistan of 2 consecutive sixes

4. Dolar Mahmud- for his one hit wonder giving me hope to shine in life

5. Paul Gogga, you can stargaze AND bowl at the same time; yup he made it possible

6. Steven Davies for coming out of his closet

7. Varun Aaron- for helping me to use google efficiently to look him up

8. Brian Macmillan- when singing Christiana Milian in shower and saying that one must be VERYYY SECURE to do so

9. The Rajib is

10. Mahmuddulah for his violent innings at the Caribbean warm up



I nominate reverse swing, Nightwolf and roman.


Rana. Inspire even when one is not present.

Murali. You can take a wicket without bowling. The eyes of a Lion.

David Boon, Ranatunga, De Silva. One can be fat yet quick as a Kangaroo or a Lion and keep going like an energizer bunny. (Tamim has hope)

Attapatu. Failure is the pillar of success. 

Chris Gayle. Viv Richards 2.0. I thought it was never possible to upgrade Viv.

Shoaib Akthar. A person with no humble bones. (Confidence and Arrogance is two different thing)

Sobers. Aliens do exists.

Shakib Al Hasan. Person larger than the team. Hand him the keys already and move away!! Let us all ride the wave to the promise land.


SAkib : a man who can carry the burden of a nation( that also bangladesh)



AB De villiers: killers can be humble too



Amla :  extra ordinary player + extra ordinary behavior = extra ordinary human being



Steyn : he can make his haters(me) become his fans with his performance







Sirji : you can still be in the game without being in the game.

         you can still get public support despite of being corrupted ( by ) although you are not into politics.


Amla: Calmness Iconified


Tendulkar--fame and being Humble can go side by side



Kambli--Money can be devastating sometimes



McGrath--You don't need to be super fast to become a legendary fast bowler



Ranatunga-- Fitness whaaaat! !



Amla--determination



Shakib--If you are famous, good at what you do, then you must know how to do "ji hujur ji hujur" if you live in Bangladesh 



Ash--Never Mind


Warne: the symbol of toughess. Career full of controvercies on and off the field ie. taking money from bookies, smoking, getting banned for taking illegal substance, getting caught by wife for cheating, divorce, getting back together then divorce again, front page naked photo with hookers, clashes with Buchanon, Waugh, Ponting and so on. But his on field performance was never affected. He kept developing as a cricketer right till the end. We see its proof in his captaincy of t20 teams. Also one of the rarest players to be fitter in retirement than playing life.












http://bd.thedailystar.net/sports/zi...nnounced-39131








9 or 10 of their 20 have caps with  4-5 projected to play in the senior side. So recently strong team here.


Good to see kamrul rabbi in a team after a long time.



Is shahid another spinner? Or a pacer?


Pacer. He's supposed to be a good prospect too


gonna lose all of em


Naeem got the captaincy for the first match. BCB suppose to provide live score here http://www.digicricket.marssil.com/m...ent.aspx?id=82



Match will start at 9:30 local time.


Is he going to be our future captain? Stupid selectors!!



Why not give the captaincy to someone young who has potential to be our future national captain. 



Naeem is the senior player so lets make him the captain..  


Thats so true. Should have used this as an opportunity to nurture a younger captain. Shows the thinking of our selectors.


Why isnt Naeem Islam in the National team Test squad. He would have been much better than kopa samsu?


Zim A 203/8. Saqlain Sajib has 7 wickets so far!! Well done lad!


Make that 8


82/9 for Saqlain Sajib!! Zim collapse from 103/1 to 206 all out


so much for sajib being in poor form, then again it is zimbabwe A.






http://www.espncricinfo.com/ci/engine/match/775069.html


Jubair Hossain should have bowled more than 10 overs. Our  captains always rely on SLA only. They hardly give the ball to leggies or pacers. 



I know Sajib was excellent but that doesn't mean we have to bowl him all the overs. Noor Hossain is already out of the picture.


Was really hoping Jubair would get a few. Need variety in spin. Jubair was on major cricket debut!


^^Good spot

 



 

http://www.espncricinfo.com/banglade...ry/780589.html

 

Best figures in an innings by a Bangladeshi bowler in first class matches


Congrats to Saqlain.



However, I find it worrisome that our bowling attack is still an one-trick pony, even against Zimbabwe.


Well between Shahadat, Shahid, and Saqlain. Its not really a surprise. Jubair has never played FC, List A, or T20 cricket before. Shahid is unheard of and rajib is well just Rajib. We could have put any SLA out there and they would returned a bagful of wickets.


Quite a few senior Zimbabwe players. They will use this tour as a chance to get used to the spin, the conditions. On the other hand if our guys bowl like how Sajib did today, they will be coming in October very fearfully.


Saqlain should be a lock to make the Test team now. He's very unlucky to not get a chance yet in the national team but with this display, you'd think he'd make it now.



Hope Shadman and LKD can convert here and get a big partnership


Heard on the news that the ceiling in the Bangladesh dressing room collapsed during the match but luckily no one was in the room when it happened.


As per daily star, it is a typical low-slow wicket. Sounds like BCB has no plan to prepare for the next WC in Aus-NZ.



http://www.thedailystar.net/sports/s...-bowling-41699




soumya off to a flyer, liton a bit slow but with a small target it's less of an issue, and opening partnership of 64 so far.


Soumya has a new list A high score, congrats!


Soumya gone on 86, but strike rate over 100' a couple of wickets and a 50 in the last match might get the selectors thinking.


8 runs to win and rain stops play





Soumya should come in for Imrul for ODIs


Liton does not seem to be interested in rotating strike, taking all his runs in boundaries.



http://www.digicricket.marssil.com/m...op=1&match=816


Very pleased to see Soumya's knock... He's a superb talent. Hope he makes the ZIM ODI squad. Enough of shamsur and imrul.


He was too slow in the last game and in general. I'm sure ZIM bowlers are serving loose ones.


What makes you think Shamsur or Imrul could not flay this Zim A attack too? That too in home condition. Soumya may very well be a very talented cricketer, but this series does not prove a whole lot.


Too many boundaries and Soumya bowled. Good to see openers had a fifty partnership though.


I used to think Naeem is slow, Marshall is turning out to be worse.


We've seen imrul and shams...time to see what soumya brings. People have been singing Hom's praise without seeing him.


Liton gone four runs short of a fifty. Lets hope the Zim A leggie won't cause havoc today again.


Momin's one-day misery continues - run out


Liton has been pretty consistent over the tests and the one dayers, good to see, probably one of liton or soumya should come in for imrul, shamsur should get a couple more chances. Marshall and naeem really not doing much to put their names up, mominul a huge disappointment in this series.


I know they've lost 3 wickets but these strike rates from Marshall and naeem are horrendous.


The youngsters doing better than the experienced, consolidating doesn't mean score no runs.


No ODI return for Naeem either, Waller got him.


Naeem 9 from 35?? Wth. That's unacceptable from him.


Fifty for Marshall. He finally playing it like one-day cricket.


Marshall gone. Time for Sohan to show his worth with bat.



But Freza came before him!


Good work from mominul 3/36 from 10.


Tells you more about the quality of overall batsmanship on display (or rather the lack thereof) then anything about Mominuls SLAs. I'm referring to both teams.


Yeah same as Shuvo's left arm which once took 3-14 off 10. Granted that batting lineup was good enough for a world cup semifinal berth 5 months later.




what if the pitches are minefields?





MHRAM.  Look into your heart.  You have seen these two inept teams play for the last decade and also seen how good teams bat on tough pitches.  You will realize that I am, unfortunately closer to the truth


As a true cricket fan I agree both teams are mediocre but we judge too much simply by watching scores on cricinfo.





I'm not judging by scores. I'm going by what I've seen of their batting live.  On good pitches.  Against mediocre bowling.


well we haven't seen many of these zimbo players live but regardless they are ordinary.





 for few days..I wonder what players are doing..




2 specialist spinners. But with riyad showing some form with bat and ball unlikely. My squad. 



Tamim

Shamsur/imrul 

Mushfiq

Mominul

Shakib

Anamul

Nasir (if he fails in the first zim test Hom can come in)

Riyad

Robiul

Taijul

Taskin/shafiul (assume Al amin and gazi are banned)


sadman 36, marshall 19.


thought you meant in the XI mate.yeah he can take elias's spot no drama's, getting him into the XI might be a bit tougher unless as discussed we take 2 specialist spinners (shakib not count as a specialist spinner).


sadman out for 40.


should have sent naeem in at #4 not raqibul.


marshall out for 20, slowly falling back down the pecking order...


interesting tidbit, naeem averages 38.21 from 41 A team matches (45 innings).





Don't understand why our batsmen minus Liton batted that slowly? A RR of less than 2 is just not good enough. I can understand being cautious but this is just too slow.



Raqibul and Naeem better go on to score big, otherwise these innings won't really do much


My bad bro I should've made myself clearer. I agree it'll be harder for him to make the XI with Shakib coming back and Mahmudullah performing pretty well.


What is the purpose of this kind of batting?


Same here. They should entertain the crowd.  We must learn how to finish the game quickly.


To show the "selectors" that they are Test quality bats and should be picked in the future. Once picked for a Test they will bat in T20 mode (in that Test) to show exactly how brilliant strokemakers they are that they should be picked for the next T20 bash.

 

Our cricketers are uniquely forward thinking individuals unmatched by any other earth dwellers.


211 allout.



Naeem and Raqibuk were too slow. One of the reason why they wont make it to national team.




who's spot will he take though? shakib is coming back and taijul only just came into the team.


3 front line spinners and 2 pacers might be the way to go but the spinners have to be up to par, i'm not sure taijul is quite at test class standard and who knows about sajib. shakib of course is but if we take 2 specialist spinners who can't get wickets are they anymore effective than hom or even riyad? if they don't take the wickets then probably better off playing guys like hom who at elast also have some batting ability and can hold up an end.


Taijul is no left handed Murali - but 7 wickets from his first 2 innings overseas why would you say he's not test standard? Especially against an opposition that cannot play left arm spin? Contrast to Enamul Haque Jr who I agree was shafted, but has only run through a severely depleted ZIM side. Is or was he test standard.


i'm not saying taijul isn't test standard, i'm saying we haven't seen enough of him at test level to say either way. enamul, well he's always been pretty average when i've seen him.



