

Due to Bangladeshi weddings having many different events to deal with the formalities, confusion about dress selection is quite normal. This article will guide you to select the best Bangladeshi wedding dress for the right occasions.
Like it or not, Bangladeshi weddings will always have more than one event to conclude the marriage ceremony. On top of that, on every single event the groom and the bride have to try their best to look good and different. While groom dresses are relatively simple and easy to choose, the same is not the case with bridal dresses. Different types of bridal dresses are required for different types of wedding events. Brides do find themselves in frenzy when such complexity occurs. This article aims to suggest how to choose a Bangladeshi bridal dress for different wedding events like engagement, bride reception, main wedding and Gaye Holud.
Here It Starts, the Engagement
Arranging engagements with large ceremonies is yet to become a popular tradition in Bangladesh, but some families do like to celebrate everything in a festive manner. However, regardless of the engagement being celebrated massively or not, the bride needs to get dolled up. Saree is the most suitable Bangladeshi wedding dress for engagements. The bride should prefer Georgette or Jamdani Sarees for this occasion.
If Georgette is the preferred breed, then it shouldn’t be too much fancy as heavy work doesn’t look good on it. Also, it won’t be appropriate to wear red on engagement, as red is a color traditionally chosen for the main wedding event. Pitch, pink, purple or blue are much more suited to engagement. Engagement celebrations are mostly confined among family members, close relatives and friends. It’s not necessary to put on heavy makeup for smaller gatherings.
Here’s One for the Dances, The Gaye Holud
While Gaye Holud ceremonies are more famous for the dances these days, you can never ignore the bridal makeover and outfit for this occasion. Traditionally, yellow Sarees are the most famous type of Bangladeshi bridal dress when it comes to Gaye Holuds. If you haven’t worn Jamdani in your engagement ceremony, then this will be the perfect time to do so. The other options are available as well, but the best fit would be to use such Sarees made by traditional wooden looms.
Now the Main Part, The Wedding
Heavy and gorgeous outfit is required for the main reception and bride reception both. These are the fanciest events on any Bangladeshi wedding. Hundreds of guests come to attend these celebrations, and they expect the bride to look most beautiful. Heavy makeups and ornaments are preserved for these big days. You can either choose Saree or Lehenga for this main part depending on your preferences. Though lehenga is becoming more and more popular these days, Saree is yet to lose its place as the mostly used Bangladeshi bridal dress. Most famous breeds of wedding Sarees are Benarasi and Kanjivaram. Benarasi is the most gorgeous type of traditional Saree to be found in the country. These are hand-made, high quality colorful pieces of clothing. The silk used to weave a Benarasi are made by organic means as well. That’s why Benarasi is the first choice when it comes to choosing Bangladeshi bridal dress.
If you are going for lehenga instead of Saree, then red is a must to choose. Remember, only red lehenga has the bridal vibe into it. For jewelry and other accessories, try to keep a good color combination. Though gold ornaments were very famous for wedding receptions, nowadays gold plated ones and silver ornaments have become very popular.
Additional Accessories
Additional accessories are not given the deserved importance. But due to wrongly choosing these accessories like wedding shoes or bags, the total look of the outfit might seem too boring. Choosing the right bag for the bride is not an easy task to carry out.
The bag should be bought after everything else has been purchased. On that way you will be able to decide what kind of bag would be the best fit to the rest of your stuff. Currently the trendiest wedding bags are clutch bags. As Bangladeshi bridal dresses have heavy work on them, clutch bags can complement the overall outlook very well.
The Make Up
A bride doesn’t want to look bad regardless of all the beautiful dresses and jewelry. Makeup gives the finishing touch to the whole outfit. The general tradition is to go to reputed wedding makeup parlors and getting the job done. For home makeup, make sure your face is clean and washed before putting on foundations and stuff. Otherwise the makeup will make you uncomfortable and distressed.
Bangladeshi bridal dress looks awesome when the combination of everything falls into pieces. For getting the combination right, pre-planning the overall outfit and makeup is mandatory. Otherwise things will fall in a rush and the chances of messing everything up will increase. Another important thing to look at is the budget. Don’t get too overboard with the wedding dresses and ornaments and spend way too much. There is no point in spending so much money for just one week. As most of the ornaments and dresses bought for weddings are not used that too often, spending a lot of money is totally pointless. If you can strategize well and be careful, everything can be covered in a moderate budget.



Bangladeshi wedding shopping can take weeks, and might never seem perfect. Very often these small but important things are not given enough importance in the shopping spree. But there are reasons why you should.
Important Bangladeshi Wedding Shopping Components
A Bangladeshi wedding means a massive shopping spree.People plan for a wedding for years, and want this day to be the most exciting and beautiful one of their lives. No wonder everything used in this particular needs to be new and luxurious. Couples spend a lot of money for their big day, and buy so many things. From dresses to jewelry, everything should be gorgeous and attractive. At many instances, for the sake of major things like dresses, jewelry and shoes, some minor but important things are entirely forgotten. As a result, those things are bought on a rush and messed up. Keeping these five things in mind at the time of Bangladeshi wedding shopping will decrease the hassle and complexity.
Gaye Holud Accessories
What most people think of Gaye Holud shopping is basically purchasing saree, ornaments, flowers, makeup sets etc. Holud Shopping is a big part of Bangladeshi wedding shopping. But the decoration of the Holud venue is not less important. Some other accessories are required to fulfill the Holud decoration part. Though currently the trend of hiring wedding planners for the decoration part has become quite popular, some families still want to do it themselves.If you have decided not to hire a wedding planner for Holud decorations, then know what you need. Plan how the stage will be made, and if there is any concept. The ongoing tradition is to create a stage that gives a rural vibe to the venue. After you are done with the concept selection process, make a list of things that you’ll need to pull the plan off. And you must not forget about the ‘Holud’ itself. If you are not purchasing tubes, then prepare it one or two days before the event from raw tamarind. And lastly, purchase good lids and stocks. Carrying gifts in lids and stocks is an old tradition of Bengali marriage, and that should be kept in mind.
The Luggage for the Bride
Speaking of traditions, both the families related to the wedding send gifts to each other. In most of the cases the jewelry, makeup sets and dresses the bride is going to wear all throughout the different wedding events are sent from the groom’s side. However, those things will not carry themselves, right? The luggage or suitcase that is going to carry all the stuff to the bride’s house should be bought while completing the main Bangladeshi wedding shopping formalities as well. This is a thing that is forgotten about most often and bought right at the last moment. On top of that, this is one of the things that can be used even when the wedding is over. That’s why it is important to purchase a good suitcase that can be taken to travels for years. A good suitcase or luggage will cost from BDT 3000/= to 10,000/=. The non-branded ones will cost even less, but it is better to go for the branded ones.
The Perfumes
Wedding perfumes are important for two reasons mainly. First, this is an important element of the gifts the bride’s and the groom’s family send each other. And secondly, perfumes are actually needed for weddings. Both the bride and the groom have to spend a lot of time under bright lights and crowd gatherings. If the wedding ceremony is not taking place on winter, the environment can get way too warm and thus people with heavy makeup are caused to sweat. Good perfumes can mitigate that issue to some extent. For brides, JoMalone, Dior, Elizabeth Arden, Tommy girl etc. are the most famous perfume brands. The prices of these branded perfumes are on the higher side, but they can be used for a long period of time. For the groom, Burberry Sport, Hugo Boss, Gary etc. are great options. Give a special place for perfumes on your Bangladeshi wedding shopping list.
The Bride’s Bag
The bride is never seen with a bag in her wedding, right? But that is not right. Brides do have bags bought specially for their wedding. But nobody just notices the bag. That doesn’t necessarily mean that the bag is not needed. If the bag is absent, then you will realize that something is missing but won’t be able to figure it out. The bride has to keep a good makeup during the entirety of the ceremony. At times, she might need to check her face and put some foundation. Those small makeup accessories have to be carried, that’s why the bag is important to have nearby. That’s why the bride’s Bangladeshi wedding shopping will not be complete without the bag.
Additional Accessories
So many small additional things are needed in a wedding that it is not easy to create different categories for them. The most important ones among these additional accessories are handkerchiefs, baskets, palanquin, toothpicks etc. Hiring decorator services will take care of almost all this, but you never know. Discuss the terms with the decorator and take a full list of what they are going to provide you with. Things that the decorators are not going to provide you, put them in your Bangladeshi wedding shopping list. Purchasing many things together will cost significantly less.



In vast majority of instances, the groom wears a Sherwani or a gorgeous Panjabi in the reception. The color of the main outfit must be bright and glowing. Though recently people want to get jobs done with a suit, still Sherwani and Panjabi are yet to get extinct. That’s why I am going to assume that you will wear a Sherwani or a Panjabi, along with a nice Pagri. Anyways, the most famous shoe that goes with such outfit on the reception is called the Nagra ( Wedding Man's Shoe ). This is the kind of shoe the royal family members used to wear when monarchy still existed in the sub-continent. Nagras are very gorgeous and colorful, just like the overall outfit. The twisted front side is the most visible trait of such shoes. While choosing a Nagra, make sure the color fits well with the rest of the outfit. If you are confused, then go with golden. It goes with every clothing color in wedding. Gaye Holud is one of the very unique kinds of ceremonies that take place in a wedding. This is a sub-continent culture specifically. Expect a lot of tamarind paste to be put on your body and face. The most common type of clothing for this occasion is a normal yellow Panjabi. You shouldn’t choose a very expensive one, as the tamarind paste might ruin it for you. Anyways, purchase good-looking sandals for as the footwear. The sandal doesn’t necessarily need to be too colorful and gorgeous, but make sure the quality is good and it doesn’t look like your everyday sandal. Engagements that take place in wedding halls or convention centers, in most of the cases the go-to outfit for the groom is a good premium suit or tuxedo. Suits and tuxedos are used as wedding outfits in the west, and it is getting a lot of traction in sub-continent weddings as well. However, the most obvious shoe choice for such an outfit is definitely leather shoes. The color should match with the suit color obviously. Make sure the shoe looks shiny. If you can see your reflection on your shoe, then it is even better. Jokes apart, make sure the leather is pure. There are lots of faux leather shoes that are available in the market and they are kind of indistinguishable from the real ones. Don’t get conned by them. The quality is very important here, and you don’t want to ruin your engagement by wearing fake shoes.If you have other occasions to attend, then choose wisely and never compromise with quality. It’s your wedding after all.
The Reception
The Holud
The Engagement
The Reception
In vast majority of instances, the groom wears a Sherwani or a gorgeous Panjabi in the reception. The color of the main outfit must be bright and glowing. Though recently people want to get jobs done with a suit, still Sherwani and Panjabi are yet to get extinct. That’s why I am going to assume that you will wear a Sherwani or a Panjabi, along with a nice Pagri. Anyways, the most famous shoe that goes with such outfit on the reception is called the Nagra ( Wedding Man's Shoe ). This is the kind of shoe the royal family members used to wear when monarchy still existed in the sub-continent. Nagras are very gorgeous and colorful, just like the overall outfit. The twisted front side is the most visible trait of such shoes. While choosing a Nagra, make sure the color fits well with the rest of the outfit. If you are confused, then go with golden. It goes with every clothing color in wedding.
The Holud
Gaye Holud is one of the very unique kinds of ceremonies that take place in a wedding. This is a sub-continent culture specifically. Expect a lot of tamarind paste to be put on your body and face. The most common type of clothing for this occasion is a normal yellow Panjabi. You shouldn’t choose a very expensive one, as the tamarind paste might ruin it for you. Anyways, purchase good-looking sandals for as the footwear. The sandal doesn’t necessarily need to be too colorful and gorgeous, but make sure the quality is good and it doesn’t look like your everyday sandal.
The Engagement
Engagements that take place in wedding halls or convention centers, in most of the cases the go-to outfit for the groom is a good premium suit or tuxedo. Suits and tuxedos are used as wedding outfits in the west, and it is getting a lot of traction in sub-continent weddings as well. However, the most obvious shoe choice for such an outfit is definitely leather shoes. The color should match with the suit color obviously. Make sure the shoe looks shiny. If you can see your reflection on your shoe, then it is even better. Jokes apart, make sure the leather is pure. There are lots of faux leather shoes that are available in the market and they are kind of indistinguishable from the real ones. Don’t get conned by them. The quality is very important here, and you don’t want to ruin your engagement by wearing fake shoes.If you have other occasions to attend, then choose wisely and never compromise with quality. It’s your wedding after all.



