


I hope some progress will happen during President Erdogan's visit,about defence relation


Mahathir, Rouhani, Imran, Erdogan likely to visit Dhaka


D-8 summit in May 30-31


Shahidul Islam Chowdhury | Published: 00:15, Feb 14,2020 | Updated: 00:18, Feb 14,2020


Top leaders of eight countries are highly likely to be in Dhaka on May 30 and 31 for joining a summit meeting of D-8 Organisation for Economic Cooperation, a group of eight Muslim-majority developing countries.


The Malaysian government has formally confirmed the visit of its prime minister Mahathir Mohamad, and several countries have also informally confirmed that their heads of the government would join the summit, diplomatic sources said.


Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan and Turkey are members of the organisation, also known as Developing-8.


The government will also send invitations to Egyptian president Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, Indonesian president Joko Widodo, Iranian president Hassan Rouhani, Malaysian president Mahathir Mohamad, Nigerian president Muhammadu Buhari, Pakistan prime minister Imran Ahmed Khan Niazi and Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan to visit Bangladesh, officials said.


Foreign ministers of the member countries are also expected to join a council meeting before the summit set for May 30.


The D-8 leaders are likely to visit Rohingya camps in Cox’s Bazar on May 31.


Developing-8 was established in 1997, with its headquarters in Istanbul. Its objectives are to improve member states’ position in the global economy, diversity and create new opportunities in trade relations, and enhance participation in decision-making at international level, among others.


Link: https://www.newagebd.net/article/99523/mahathir-rouhani-imran-erdogan-likely-to-visit-dhaka





07:50 PM, September 14, 2020 / LAST MODIFIED: 08:09 PM, September 14, 2020


Bangladesh keen to deepen ties with Turkey: PM


UNB, Dhaka


Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina today said Bangladesh is keen to boost its relationship with Turkey as it is deeply rooted in shared history, faith and traditions based on trust and confidence.


The prime minister said this while virtually opening Bangladesh's Embassy complex in Ankara from her official residence Gono Bhaban.


Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu and Bangladesh Foreign Minister Dr AK Abdul Momen also spoke at the programme.


The PM recalled her visit to Ankara at the invitation of then Prime Minister and now President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan on April 13, 2012 and said the formal diplomatic ties between the two countries began in 1974.


On behalf of the Bangladesh government and herself, Sheikh Hasina thanked Turkey for extending support to Bangladesh on various issues, including the Rohingya crisis.


"All the support you extended for [resolving] the Rohingya crisis, we also thank you for your support… I think it has been nearly three years [since the crisis broke out]. So, Rohingya people should go back to their own country. I feel Turkey can play a pivotal role in this regard," she said.


About the Covid-19 crisis, the prime minister said the world is enduring a difficult time due to the pandemic as it has battered the health systems and the economies of most countries.


In Bangladesh, she said, they have been able to successfully contain the spread of the virus.


"At the same time our timely and appropriate measures and stimulus packages have also been able to minimise the disastrous effects of the deadly disease. We've so far announced a set of Covid-19 recovery packages worth 13.25 billion dollars, equivalent to 4.03 percent of our GDP."


The prime minister also commended Turkish leadership for its success in fighting the deadly pandemic and appreciated its initiative to dispatch medical supplies to different countries, including Bangladesh.


She said Bangladesh is one of the fastest-growing economies in the world. After showing some initial sluggishness for a month or two due to the pandemic, exports have started making a turnaround from July.


"We're overcoming the situation. The country's foreign currency reserve now stands at a record 39.40 billion US dollars. We're on the right path to graduate from LDC [least developed country] to a developing country," she said.


Talking about the newly-built Embassy Complex, the Prime Minister said it took less than two years to complete the construction of the Embassy building with the help of the Turkish as well as Bangladesh authorities. The distinct red-brick cladding on the Embassy complex would resonate for long the Bangladeshi architectural impression and heritage.


The spacious complex has all facilities along with a beautiful auditorium. It proudly hosts a bust of Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and a Shaheed Minar.


To achieve vision 2021 and 2041, she said, Bangladesh is set to expand its global outreach by establishing many more diplomatic offices.


"This permanent embassy complex in Ankara is a testimony to the priority Bangladesh attaches to boost further its friendship with Turkey. The recently built Turkish Embassy building in Dhaka also demonstrates the same sentiment," she said.


She hoped the formal opening of the Turkish Embassy building in Dhaka would also take place soon with the presence of President Erdogan during the ongoing Mujib Year.


"Please convey my invitation to the president and the first lady," the prime minister requested the Turkish foreign minister.


She also thanked Turkey for repairing the Bangladeshi Navy ship that was damaged in the recent blasts in Lebanon.


 


https://www.thedailystar.net/bangladesh-keen-deepen-ties-turkey-1961169


8 December, 2020 05:24:18 PM / LAST MODIFIED: 8 December, 2020 08:06:45 PM


Fast-growing Bangladesh attracts Turkish entrepreneurs


UNB, Dhaka


Turkish Ambassador to Bangladesh Mustafa Osman Turan has said his country eyes an increased investment in Bangladesh with a significant jump in bilateral trade volume through product diversification as Bangladesh’s economy is growing fast.


“We see a Bangladesh which has a very bright future. Its economy is growing fast like ours. Turkish investors are keen to invest in Bangladesh as it offers attractive incentives for foreign investors,” he told UNB in an interview at his office.


Ambassador Turan who came to Bangladesh just before the Covid-19 pandemic said a prominent Turkish company will invest US$ 100 million in LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas) sector in Chattogram. “That will be an initial investment.” 


He said improving trade between the two countries, boosting investment in Bangladesh, enhancing cultural and people-to- people ties are among his priorities during his tenure in Bangladesh.


“As an envoy, there’s always a desire to do something more,” Ambassador Turan said, adding that he is lucky to see the positive atmosphere in place created by his predecessors to take forward the relations to a new height.


The envoy, who also served in Italy, Albania, North Macedonia, Kosovo, Austria, Afghanistan and Belgium, laid emphasis on product diversification to help grow trade between the two countries. “Our economies are growing quite fast. We’re happy that our economic and trade relations are improving. We’re expecting better trade volume between the two countries.”


The Turkish envoy said they buy a lot of jute products from Bangladesh and will explore other areas saying the two countries can always diversify their trade.


“Bangladesh has a very strong pharmaceutical industry, growing IT industry,” he said adding that agro industries, light engineering, service sector, tourism and health sector are some promising areas of cooperation.


The bilateral trade volume between the two countries is now around US$ 1 billion and the Ambassador said there is a scope to increase it further.


Ambassador Turan said: “The trade volume between the two countries in the first 10 months of the current year stood at US$754 million and the figure is the same what we had seen in the first 10 months of 2019.”


“That’s good news indeed! We kept the same level of trade despite the pandemic where other countries are experiencing a significant drop in their trade volumes. This year, the trade balance is in favour of Bangladesh as Bangladesh is selling a lot of jute products to Turkey,” he pointed out.


Main commodities exported to Bangladesh from Turkey are raw materials, agriculture and food products, textile and agriculture machinery and textile chemicals, while Turkey imports jute yarns & twine, jute manufacturers’ knitwear and readymade garments.


Talking about Turkish companies’ presence in Bangladesh, the Ambassador said Turkey's leading home appliance manufacturer Arçelik bought majority shares of Singer Bangladesh and made it quite profitable.


The Turkish company thinks Singer Bangladesh's business will benefit significantly from the sale as Arçelik is a much larger and financially stronger company with a commitment to, and a worldwide reputation in the home appliance sector.


The Ambassador said the Turkish investors are interested to invest in a special economic zone as Bangladesh offers quite attractive incentives for investment.


“We’re going to organise a virtual meeting among businesses of the two countries,” Ambassador Turan said.


Top executives of the Bangladesh Investment Development Authority (BIDA), Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FBCCI) and Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK) of Turkey will take part in the discussion to identify areas of cooperation and explore opportunities jointly. Turkish contracting companies are also interested in mega infrastructure projects in Bangladesh.


50 Years of Independence


The Turkish Ambassador, who joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkey in 1992, highly appreciated Bangladesh’s growth, especially the achievements made over the last 10 years saying 50 years have been quite a significant journey for Bangladesh.


“Bangladesh is progressing in a speedy way with an impressive development achieved in the last 10 years under the leadership of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. In the last decade, Bangladesh has become a model for many developing countries,” he said.


The Turkish Ambassador said Bangladesh has got a solid foundation given by Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and today Bangladesh is a much-respected nation globally.


He said Bangladesh’s foreign policy - “friendship to all, malice to none”, is coinciding with Turkey’s foreign policy motto “peace at home, peace in the world.”


The Ambassador said Bangladesh is making significant contributions to global peace through its robust engagement with the UN peacekeeping operations.


Therefore, it will be a very well-deserved celebration for Bangladesh, its people and the government of Bangladesh, he said.


Talking about Turkish presence in the mega celebrations on March 26, the Ambassador said they are looking into how the situation evolves following Covid-19 pandemic.


He said Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, while virtually inaugurating the newly-built Bangladesh Embassy complex in Ankara on September 14, invited President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan through Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu. Meanwhile, Foreign Minister Dr AK Abdul Momen also handed over the invitation to his Turkish counterpart to visit Bangladesh.


“We’ll see how the Covid-19 situation evolves in March next year. We don’t know yet how the situation will be at that time,” the Ambassador said.


Ambassador Turan expressed satisfaction over his discussion with a number of ministers in Bangladesh regarding cooperation between the two countries in the coming years. “I am hoping to meet with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Speaker Dr Shirin Sharmin Chaudhury soon.”


Hospital to Be Built


Responding to a question, the Turkish Ambassador said Turkey wants to establish a hospital in Bangladesh as it has vast experience in the health sector.


He said it is not yet decided whether the hospital will be a specialized one or a general hospital but they plan to build it in Dhaka. “That’s one of the big projects in our mind. We would like to share our experience.”


The Ambassador said they want to explore opportunities in medical tourism. “We provide very good health services. That’s why Turkey has become one of the top five destinations for health tourism in the world. Turkey could be another destination for those Bangladeshis who go abroad for better treatment.”


He also said Turkey wants to boost cultural exchanges and academic cooperation to help Turkish and Bangladeshi people learn more about each other.


“It gives me much pleasure that Turkish TV serials are becoming very popular in Bangladesh,” said Ambassador Turan adding that relations between Turkish and Bengali nations have strong historical and cultural roots dating back before the foundation of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh.


Solidarity amid Covid-19


The Turkish Ambassador appreciated Bangladesh’s efforts in dealing with the Covid-19 situation. “It’s good to see that the situation is under control in Bangladesh. Bangladesh made it possible to deal with the situation in a very efficient way.”


He said this is a challenging situation for all the countries due to Covid-19 pandemic and it is time to help each other. “We have to deal with it with solidarity and unity. We remain in solidarity with Bangladesh.”


The Turkish envoy said upon instruction from President Erdoğan Turkish Ministry of Health provided five tonnes of medical supplies to Bangladesh including masks, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and ventilators.


He said Turkey provided medical supplies to 150 countries and Bangladesh is one of those countries.


 


http://www.theindependentbd.com/post/257009











