


Why You Need Work-Life Balance as a Software Engineer/Developer
It is easy to find yourself getting caught up in work when you are focusing on your career. Maybe you started your career as a software engineer or web developer and you feel the need to prove yourself. Or you are close to promotion and you’re going for the last push to reach it. Whatever the reason may be for you to be spending all your time working, you’ll realize that you do need work-life balance at some point. It is not viable to continually be working. This post will motivate you to learn about work-life balance and to put it into practice.
If you really start practicing in your life the results will be great so far and that is what we are going to share with you in this post.
1. Higher Productivity
The mistake people made was thinking that if they weren’t coding then they were not working. This leads to keep working for a long time and view taking breaks and taking time away from work as being unproductive. But changing your working style can help your work-life balance. Start began to take frequent breaks and take time off. Then you will find that you are actually more productive than you were before enforcing work-life balance.
2. Stronger Relationships
It’s difficult to make time for your friends and family when you’re constantly working. When you establish a work-life balance you’re able to use some of that time to build up your relationships with your friends and family. Having stronger relationships can increase your overall level of happiness which boosts your productivity at work.
3. Improved Health and Well-Being
Too much of anything is not good for you and that applies to work as well. At the point when you work an excessive amount of it begins to hurt your wellbeing. You increment your risk of RSI (repetitive strain injury). At the point when you work less and set aside that effort to revive, it helps by improving your health and well-being.
It helps prevents the danger of RSI, which is career breaking for a software engineer or developer. It also helps you maintain your mental health, which is critical to do your job as a software developer.
4. Prioritize tasks
Not everything is equally important. It’s usually okay if some things don’t get done. Spend time on the important tasks to have the most impact.
5. Prevents Burnout
Working too much is definitely a path to burnout. When you’re burnout you lose interest and motivation. It reduces your energy and productivity, leaving you feeling hopeless, helpless, and resentful. These negative effects will touch every area of your life including work, home, and social life.
By having a work-life balance you can prevent yourself from entering a burnout state.
If you find this article useful, please share it on social media. Please follow us on social media also.



|
|
Mr. Md. Mosaddake-Ul-Alam, is a Director of Islami Bank Bangladesh Limited. He is Deputy Managing Director of Investment Corporation of Bangladesh (ICB). He completed his M. Com. in Accounting from Dhaka University in 1983.
Mr. Alam started his career as a Senior Officer in Janata Bank Limited in 1985. He served that organization in different capacities at different times. From August 1985 to November 1994, he worked in Topkhana Road, Captain Bazar Branch and Regional Office, Zone-A of Janata Bank Limited as Senior Officer. After that, he was promoted to Principal Officer and served the Regional Office, Zone-A and Fakirapool Branch as Branch Manager of Janata Bank Limited. Mr. Alam got promotion as senior Principal Officer in 1999 and in that rank, he served the Janata Bank Training Institute, Dhaka and Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management, Dhaka as Faculty Member. During the year 2007 to 2010, he worked in the Training Institute, Retail Customer Department and Company Affairs Department of Janata Bank Limited in the capacity of Assistant General Manager. Mr. Alam acted as Company Secretary, Company Affairs Department of Janata Bank Limited as DGM. In 2014, he promoted to General Manager and he worked as Company Secretary, Compay Affairs Division of Janata Bank Limited. The Government of the Peoples’ Republic of Bangladesh promoted him as Deputy Managing Director on 11 July 2017 and posted to Investment Corporation of Bangladesh (ICB).





Islamic Relief is helping children work towards achieving their dreams. Like most children, Shiria Khatun used to think about what she might do as an adult. But unlike many children in the world, her options were limited. Shiria, 17, was just a baby when her father was struck my lightning and died. He was the main earner in the family and Shiria, her mother, and her three older sisters struggled to find the money to eat. Shiria’s mother made contact with Islamic Relief when Shiria was nine, and she was signed up to the One-to-One Orphan Sponsorship Programme for children who have lost one or both parents. As part of this scheme, Shiria was supported through school, where she blossomed. She was also able to join the Scouts and have extra IT lessons. A moment to remember Now, 11 years later, Shiria has just received results for the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) from her college in Rajbari, in central Bangladesh. She was awarded a Grade Point Average of 5, which is the highest mark possible. She said: “This is one of the best moments of my life. This sort of happiness and good news comes very rarely in our life. It happened only because of the support of Islamic Relief and its donors.” Shiria is now hoping to go to university and study to be an accountant. Her mother Aysha Begum said: “This is a memorable day for my family. Now I would likeShiria to complete her higher education and thrive.” Shiria was one of 32 students sponsored by Islamic Relief in Bangladesh who attained their HSC this year. She was one of three to gain the top grade of 5. There are around 153 million orphans in the world today. Many are orphaned by war, natural disaster, and illness, and without one or both parents, are more vulnerable to a childhood of hunger, poverty and insecurity. Islamic Relief sponsors around 43,500 orphans across the world. This scheme means they have a roof over their heads and food on their plates. They go to school with books and stationery, and when they get unwell, they are provided with healthcare, vaccinations and medicine.
They receive Eid presents and attend summer camps, sports classes and fun day trips. A social worker visits their home regularly to make sure they are safe and happy.



Latest Events
Completion of Workshop on Advance Routing & IPv6 Deployment in KHULNA
ISPAB in partnership with Business Process Council under Commerce Ministry has completed a 03-day workshop on ...
Closing Ceremony of The IPV6 Deployment Training in Chattogram
The three days long training on IPV6 deployment has been completed. The participants have received their certi...
Training on IPV6 Deployment Essentials in CHATTOGRAM (26,27 and 28 February 2021)
It is our pleasure to announce that ISP Association of Bangladesh and ICT Business Promotion Council are organ...
17th AGM of ISPAB
The 17th AGM of ISPAB was held on 04 February 2021, at Emmanuel’s Banquet Hall, Gulshan-2, Dhaka. Both P...
Greetings to BTRC High Officials from ISPAB
ISPAB has visited the newly appointed high officials of BTRC at the beginning of 2021 Meet with BTRC Chairman ...
ISPAB has achieved the AWARD of Digital Bangladesh Day, 2020
The Digital Bangladesh Award took place on 12 December 2020. ISPAB has got the award as an institution....
ISPs During COVID-19
About ISPAB
Internet Service Providers Association of Bangladesh (ISPAB) is an association for all the internet service providing organizations in Bangladesh. It’s formed by a committee of some of the most notable industry decision makers to represent the Internet industry by providing information and services on various key areas such as seeking Govt.’s help/attention, defining legal framework to protect the industry, expanding Bangladesh’s market, providing education on websites and internet usage, etc. ISPAB is a non-profit organization which prides itself in making profits for distribution to its members.



Join ISPAB
Joining Bangladesh’s leading Internet trade association, ISPAB.
Over 900 ISPs in Bangladesh benefit from membership of ISPAB.
Once you send the application form, your application is passed onto the Council of ISPAB for consideration. When your application is accepted, your company’s details will be then added to the members’ section on the ISPA website. You will also get a membership certificate duly signed.
Acceptance of membership is at the discretion of the Council. Companies who choose to become members of ISPAB also agree to abide by the ISPAB Code of Practice.
Apply now
If you would like to join ISPAB, please download the form here, fill in the form and deposit. ISPAB team will be in touch with more details after the form is received.
Membership Fees
Please Communicate with the ISPAB Secretariat to know the latest subscription fees



HomeSearch Results for "🧡👙 RV Window Repair Tips: How To Do It Yourself The RVing Guide 🧡👙 www.datego.xyz 🧡👙 hiv dating RV Window Repair Tips: How To Do It Yourself The RVing Guide RV Window Repair Tips: How To Do It Yourself The RVing Guide lufjdpsegqazxcw RV Window Repair Tips: How To Do It Yourself The RVing Guide RV Window Repair Tips: How To Do It Yourself The RVing Guide RV Window Repair Tips: How To Do It Yourself The RVing Guide sdvhykmgpcqleui RV Window Repair Tips: How To Do It Yourself The RVing Guide DATING BEST SITE RV Window Repair Tips: How To Do It Yourself The RVing Guide qznaxckerhovjyw RV Window Repair Tips: How To Do It Yourself The RVing Guide www.datego.xyz"
Nothing Found
Sorry, but nothing matched your search terms. Please try again with some different keywords.



The COVID-19 pandemic has dealt a critical blow to all business operations worldwide with most businesses brought down to a dead halt and others being forced to operate under severe restrictions. Call centers throughout the world have suffered from a massive blow from a double-edged sword. They are fielding in more calls from customers inquiring about online orders or services. But many of the people who would answer those calls either can’t get to work or are not equipped to work from home. Call volumes have sky rocketed - particularly for banks, financial service providers, e-commerce platforms, and health service providers. But the number of available agents have reduced significantly. Most of the call center service providers are either shutting down or downsizing amid containment efforts. Most big companies have put up a warning message in bright colors and large fonts at the top of their website - stating the limitations of customer support imposed by the shortage of support staff during the pandemic.
As businesses grapple with the economic impact of this pandemic, customer call centers are dealing with the people side of things. Call centers are not only experiencing a surge in call volumes, but also having to deal with more complex calls. Consumers will be calling in for more varied, involved and complex issues. Call duration is expected to increase by a large margin. Target abandonment rates will likely rise by a large margin, particularly due to the long wait in IVR. During this 'never seen before' unique situation, AI and chatbots are gaining more terrain. IBM saw a 40% increase in traffic to Watson Assistant from February to April of this year. But human to human interaction still remains the most desired form of communication when requiring support for a product or service.
Understanding the gravity of the situation at hand, we here at ISSL had been working tirelessly to shift our operations to a 'work from home' friendly approach since the beginning of official lockdown that started back in March. Facilitating our regular call center operations in a remote environment had been a gargantuan task but by the end of April, we had managed to shift most of our operations. Right from the beginning of lockdown, all our efforts had been focused towards this transition.
Within the first month of lockdown, we had shipped almost 100 laptops and an equal number of headsets to our agents. We also ensured high bandwidth internet connectivity for smooth call flow. Setting up these laptops would have been a breeze for the IT Support team, only if they were in the office! Contact center solution and CRM used by iSSL are both developed by our in-house software development team. Both these systems are cloud based which means they can be accessed from anywhere through a secure link. Remotely setting up the laptops, CRM and real time monitoring for supervisors and quality management team had been a daunting task for the IT Support team. We utilized remote desktop solutions like AnyDesk and painstakingly set up these laptops one by one remotely.
Next challenge was to establish the processes governing call center operations along with the associated teams that are participating in these processes. Efficient call center operation involves multiple teams within the value chain like CC agents, team leads, real time monitoring and reporting team that handles CRM data, training team, recruitment team, quality management team and last but not the least - the IT support team. All these teams needed to shift their regular operational and communication activities in an online environment, all the while remaining under lockdown restrictions.
Countless calls and online meetings took place among different teams in order to mitigate the technical challenges and to bridge the communication gap in online avenues. We managed to shift our day to day supervision, monitoring, task and roster management, and quality control activities in an online space by utilizing online meeting applications and our sheer dedication to keep things afloat. Scheduled meetings, proactive planning and a ‘service first’ approach have allowed us not only to keep day to day operational activities afloat but also to effectively manage recruitment and training activities for new CC agents.
All of our call center services are currently up and running with our trained and efficient agents providing 24/7 support through our secured cloud interface. This pandemic situation calls for a more vigilant presence and a higher quality of support for customers who are being forced to conduct day to day tasks from the confinements of their home. By ensuring Omni channel connectivity, we are committed to provide best in class support for our customers during this difficult time.




