


When he had Rubel and other better options......I am perplexed by this utterly stupid decision....can anyone explain this?


We went with 4 bowlers. It was playing in his mind


Well, because we didn't have a 5th bowler. He knew we had a good score (not great by any definition), so what he was planning to do is get 10 overs from the likes of SS, Mosaddek and he used Shabbir too. Basically he was calculating where he is going to 10 overs from before the match started, and this defensive strategy is where we need to move away from. He was trying to get his 10 overs from the 5th bowler before the power hitters came in and they would have targetted the 5th bowler knowing they are part timers, it's like he had no choice.



Miraz should have been in the squad no questions asked, the team selection caused a massive imbalance in our squad and England capitalized like professionals they are. Rookie mistake by Bangladesh.Basically the moment Kayes was included and the pitch was flat England won because everything worked in their favour knowing their strength is batting and long batting lineup.


It did send a defensive message that we were on the backfoot esp. using him early in the overs. At leat reserve him for middle overs or something for a breakthrough.


He has become a rubbish defensive captain. I didn't see any slip fielders yesterday. 



Did he really believe that his weak bowlers would defend 300 against England without taking initial wickets?


Just to chip away at 5 bowlers quota. Only problem though, Soumya is not accurate enough. One over he can give momentum away to opposition.




I think we had a decent start to the Champions Trophy and it maybe too early to start preparing for the next world cup but we need to do some soul searching right from now. Look, I know we have improved but if we want to take this further in the next 2 years we have to improve more. Improvement will not come without the change in mindset and devising of a well thought out team strategy. We need to address some of the weak areas in the team as we did before with our opening stand, as we did with including too many SLAs, as we did with our fast bowling (although it has regressed under Walsh again) and as we did with our middle order. Those weaknesses have turned into strength but we need to look around and see what the other strong teams are doing to dominate world cricket.



One of greatest weakness now is Slog over batting and bowling. I feel Mosaddek is wasted at number 7/8. If you followed our domestic games, Mosaddek is an awesome chaser. He stays very calm and frustrates bowlers because he does not get out, is able to rotate strike and hit occasional boundaries. He needs to be given a good run in the top order and not number 7. This is not his position, by the time his time comes it is too late to accelerate. We have a position vacant at number 3 as Shabbir was demoted (I feel that was harsh), but now restructure the batting line up and give an extended run to Mosaddek at 3. I feel the notion that he can't bat against quality fast bowlers is extremely exaggerated. 



I feel we need to revamp our fast bowling stock. I get the feeling Rubel is on the decline looking at his speed and run-up yesterday. I feel we need to remove the coach ASAP before more damage is done and get a new hard working and hands on coach before next WC. I feel Mashrafe's replacement needs to be a hard hitting pace all-rounder and I feel we need to add variety in our weak as hell bowling attack, we need to look for a wrist spinner for sure.



The batting approach needs to change as well, ok I understand for our first match we were cautious. But I will like to use the first power play in good batting condition and we just didn't utilize the close-in fielders yesterday. There were too many dots. Obviously when we needed to hit sixes we didn't yesterday but Tamim and Soumya are two players who are world class in our team and they need to set a good platform. If you noticed yesterday after 10 it was harder to hit the boundaries because the boundaries were close off with fielders. Someone needs a license in the top order. Death overs hurt us but I think first 10 hurt us more. This doesn't mean we hack ourselves to death and lose quick wickets, but punish bad balls. Keep calm and hit the bad balls. 



I feel by the 40th over the power hitters of Bangladesh need to start batting. We need to go in hit all mode. Mahmdullah, Shabbir need to be batting the majority of these overs if we stand a chance against Aussies next match. The real danger is Starc with 150k inswinging deliveries, so keep bat lift low and block anything on wicket but drive and cut anything wide should be the way to go.



I feel we have a strong foundation now, we need to make tweaks and just cut our weaknesses and turn them into strength. That's what we have been doing, right from captaincy to team combination to coaching management. Change is inevitable now, it does look this team is not good enough to break into top 5 and that's where we have to look for next generation. That's why we have Mustafiz, Soumya, Miraz, Mosaddek playing in our team. These guys are a head and shoulders above their previous generation and we need to keep this trend of applying upgrades to our team. This needs to happen guys, Bangladesh team first.



Identify the weakness and apply an upgrade, we automatically become a better team. We need to be absolutely ruthless on our way to top 5 and eventually a world cup title.


I wanted to start a new thread. We are BADLY missing a veteran skilled Legspinner/Offspinner this match. This is what Coach Haturasinghe was trying to do for the past two years. He tried with Jubair Hossain and He tried with Tanbir but nothing said off. I hope Noor Hossain is still part of the contention. On ICC pitches, Leg spinners are key to rip out any lineup. Bangladesh lacked that venom today.


The team strategy was way off. First of all, he used Kayes who didn't play Ireland series, who didn't play Sri Lanka series, so expecting him to click in a pressure environment when he himself is new to it was not correct. The guy who was tried was demoted and the part that really hurt us in the previous game was the use of 5th bowler. Without a genuine spinner or a 5th bowler English players were always relaxed. If they needed runs they would have always targetted the 5th bowler so if you noticed the dressing room they were never stressed, and were just laughing as if it's a league match.



The thing that really disappoints me is that we have experimented with our order, the whole point was a settled champions trophy XI. Did we have that? No!!! Miraz was supposed to play, why did we press the panic button once we failed in a practice match? There was a lack of clear thinking.



I am still not furious because I thought we batted wonderfully for the major part. If we can keep what we did good here but improve on certain areas I think we have a good chance of beating the Aussies. And if we beat the Aussies who knows, we might go to Semi Finals and even Finals as momentum will be with us. What the team needs to do now is think, eat, sleep with Aussie team. Watch them closely and find weaknesses and look to defeat them next match.


- Groom Mossadek for #3. The top 5 have players like Kohli, Smith, Root, Williamson and Faf while we are playing musical chairs with Imrul, Sabbir or any jodu modus. Heck, even Pak have found an amazing #3 in Babar



- Teach/drill into our players the importance of singles and for that we need a proper batting coach, not just some consultant like Samaraweera who only played tests and probably has nothing meaningful to impart in this regard. Sick of seeing 'boundary or dot' approach from our top order. 



- As for slog over batting, having muscle isn't be all/end all and a lot has to do with proper unorthodox technique in hitting and timing the ball. IIRC England hired a baseball coach for awhile right after the WC purge for the sole reason of teaching their players how to smack the ball out of the park and the results are there to be seen during death overs. Need maybe a consultant or something a long those lines for a short stint.



- Get rid of Halsall, this guy is the most useless person in the coaching staff (he's still here right?) and our fielding is currently in the gutters. I remember seeing a thread somewhere about Jonty coming, what happened to that?



- Hire a spin coach



BCB is financially well off and should have no problems spending the money, especially after the new budget proposal where we are getting a much bigger cut now. Money should not be an excuse.


We need to come up almost with a new plan for our team after CT. Everyone needs to sit and take a step back. Has our team hit a stagnant point? Under the current team management, players everything combined, have we improved as much as we could with the resources? I am sure the answer will be no. We can improve further.



Look, windows 98 was better than windows 95. Windows Vista had many improvements than XP, Windows 7 was one of the most stable OS but that was till windows 8 came, and now we have the best Windows of alltime Windows 10. Windows 10 has more security features and bug fixes as well as feature enhancements than WIndows 7 let's say. IF we are in windows 7 and we want to get to Windows 10 we need to upgrade and apply updates.



It maybe too late to experiment with Number 3 spot again, I don't know maybe we don't even have any choice. But this is what I know, we are not going to consistently win or even win once in a blue moon against the likes of Australia, India, South Africa if we don't have an explosive modern ODI batting line up who on their day can score 400 (best we can do maybe is 320) but have the fastest and the most skilled pacers in the world.



You can check Rubel's thread, this guy was consistently the fastest bowler in every match Bd played against in WC 2015. The speedometer screenshots are there for everyone to see. That spelled world class bowling line up for us. He beat Anderson, Broad, Malinga, Boult, Southee, Zabrans. Mashrafe could say proudly look we have a bowler who is one of the fastest in the world right now, with two bowlers bowling at 140clicks sure it's not the most fearsome but it was quite up there. But now we have 3 bowlers averaging around 132 ks, only Rubel consistently hitting higher 130 and once in a blue moon touching 140 is just not good enough anymore. I say that knowing Rubel is probably the fastest in Bangladesh now. That is the major disappointment for me now. How can we regress as a pace bowling unit over the years? What went wrong from 2015 - 2017 when we are supposed to get better and knowing English condition is almost like a dream conditon to play for pacers! We have gone backwards and we just cant afford that as a developing team.



We need to apply upgrades not slide backwards. In 2 years time we play the WC 2019 in the same condition and same place. We don't have much time left really to apply upgrades. Mashrafe will probably retire so we need a better captain, we need a better pace bowling unit, and we need better finishers, and we need someone solid at number 3. Continuous improvement guys, keep up with the modern day cricket. We cant be satisfied with just playing for 300 or a respectable loss, those days are over.


We are over reliant on Tamim to set platform. It's time Soumya + #3 to do the same.


Your top order with Tamim, Soumya, Mushy and Shabbir is more than fine, your lower order sucks big time. Try to transform Taskin into a big hitter lower down the order, kid got muscles just needs to learn how. Could very well be a remedy for your dismal hitting in death overs, this is just a temporary solution though.


Kayedge shouldn't be anywhere in the team, in his place even i would take miraz to bat of we are in that urgency situation but no thanks to kayedge.


Tamim Riad Mushy Shakib are a must for the next World Cup. They are more or less reliable. Soumya too should be around, Sabbir at the lower order too can be useful. However, I want to see Liton or Anamul in the side, especially Liton at no. 3 We need someone with talent and skill at no. 3. Imrul won't cut it. Also, Miraz could mature into a quality batsman in the years to come. 



What we really need however is



-A big hitting batting allrounder at 7(Sabbir for now)

-a big hitting bowling allrounder at 8

-A quality leggie but not likely

-A spin bowling coach

-Playing a few series in Europe. Yes, lets even tour scotland and netherlands where if necessary field our A team in dead rubber games.

-





We need to stop dropping players constantly. WTF happened to Robiul, Zia, etc. ?

We need to have an A team. We currently don't!

We need to drop the deadbeats and get rid of this internal syndicate group feeling in the team


 Even reading all this is straining my eyes.



Don't do anything. Let the change happen organically.  Haturi prepared for a year for CT and we still can't take more than 2 wickets.


We need 2 things: 



- big power hitter like Pandya, one who doesn't need to get set before teeing off

- a reliable wrist spinner (unless Miraz can be the next Saqlain)



We also need to drop Imrul, realize Sabbir is not top order material, and realize Taskin is better than Rubel. Also need to promote Mosaddek up the order and bring Nasir into the main squad, if not the playing XI.



