


Outstanding Catches by Tamim Iqbal.





I know this thread is little inappropriate but our BD fans always praises Nasir Hussein 

and Sabbir Rahman as the best fielders. Although still I haven't seen them taking such super catches that Tamim Iqbal

did in his career. 

And Yes he's ground fielding has declined due to his wrong fitness. But still he's our  best catch taker in the 

fielding department. 





1/Tamim Super Man Catch against Sri Lanka in 2007/8. 

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p5AZD PvN29c



2/Tamim Great one handed Catch against West Indies 2013. 

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RtPLE8X Gm8M







3/Tamim  outstanding flying catch against West Indies T20 WC 14. 

 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UfO1aLTJ0C0



  





4/Tamim another catch in WC T20 14. 

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Q79VSF Rrbw


Tamim is very reliable outfielder. Has good arm strength. However, he is no Nasir or Sabbir. Let just leave it at that.

  

 

  

 Can you recall this? Hahaha!!! Everyone has his moments. There are room for improvements.


To be fair to him...







Darn you Tamim


You mean this catch by NASSIR Hussein against Sri Lanka. 

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YG9ut1kVXtw





Still for me this catch by Tamim was better than that from Nasir. 

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p5AZDPvN29c



Can you recall this one. And also everyone has his bad moments too. 

Nasir also missed some catches recently. Didn't he?

But yes Tamims miss catch was crucial. But still for me he is our 'best catch taker'. But 

nowadays poor in ground fielding. But that's different issue. I meant Tamim has taken

many outstanding catches than Nasir and co. 





(Overall best fielder is Nasir)


First (Opening post)

Then

Now I am confused. You are doing the same what you are accusing other BD fans of doing.



Take on my first post was "best fielder".


I am saying that people give Nasir and Sabbir credit for great fielding. Their athletic appearance in the field is worth watching. Then I said Tamim is also a great fielder especially he had took some exceptional catches. But I don't see people praising him much. That's it. I mean he's little underrated as a fielder. 

But yes Nasir> Tamim in overall fielding. But in catching department for me Tamim is comparatively better.


Got it now. You meant to say Tamim has a safer hand than Nasir/Sabbir. May be. But we have a even safer pair of hands than Tamim. The name is Sarkar.


Tamim is more proven to have the safest pair of hands, mientras que Nasir & Sabbir are faster and better at diving and grabbing the ball and throwing quickly.

These two need to take more catches to show that they are better than Tamim.


, Tamim was a pretty good fielder.


He also dropped a crucial catch during bd vs eng game in WC.


Another Tamim iqbal thread??



Wow, aren't we really  bisecting/dissecting him from all angles??



Two months ago--- " Notorious biryani-eater" to now the most discussed cricketer on BC . 



Way to go you all.



He did took some spectacular catches, but did any of those catches turned a match into Bangladeshis favor??



Help me out with this guy.


I think Somya Sarkar is also very good in taking catches.


I thought the catch TAMIM took against West Indies was a proper blinder! Like a goal keeper right in the top corner and he kept it out- cricketing terms; caught it!


Oh yes, i remember this game. That was an outstanding catch alright!


Soumya also has a safe pair of hands and is a good outfielder overall. Soumya, Nasir, Sabbir, Anamul, Litton in the t20 team would save us 20+ runs.


Shahadat would give back that 20 runs in one over.


 LoL


i really liked one he took in SL around 2008. it was Tony Graig who was commentating at the time.




hi guyz



my name is zeeshan. long time reader first time poster. 



So i was wondering how i can be rich and famous



thnx



tc



bye


start your own company and make it big


Speak the truth, give without any string attached, and have patience. In 50 years, okay I'll give a little more time, in 100 years, you will be among the most famous and the richest among us. It is a permanent deal. I promise, you will NEVER be poor from there on and remain rich and famous.




join Showbij 

use .


Are you something like a Chris Griffin?


Ok so I don't care about the famous bit but yes I woudnt mind knowing how I can be rich! I feel my 9 to 5 job (which I appreciate btw) will never ever make me rich!



PS: I'm open to business partnership offers. Have British and Canadian passports so can help with import/export ideas etc! I'm just not business savy and have always done well in a stable job!


Be a "politician" in Bangladesh, of course, you have to be in the "current govt. party" ....


That will surely make one rich, but one will also be INfamous.


By buying shake shack stock?  Is this gonna go up forever ?





Need to ask Z 


Eat Biriani, smoke Benson and always reply with the Bat, Be-bop-a-lulla Baby.


Yes...we will call it Halal Guys



Yawn



Naveed Mahmud called...he wants your jokes back



Who?



Lol at the plug



Only decent advice so far.



Badam tiss



Why not study Chinese philosophy you lame shallow t---d? 



Wife must be attractive and have lamborghini



He is like Schrodinger's cat. Both, neither, both and neither, both nor neither...



Like Tamim?



*swooshes away on *




First home series for Pakistan after 2009, they should win vs Zimbabwe though at home. But will this series encourage other teams to tour one wonders.



Today is the first T20I


Don't think that other teams will be encouraged. Even Bangladesh will not be encouraged unless we are in a big scarcity of matches.


Top 8 teams, won't tour Pakistan anytime soon. This might make a case for Bangladesh and Scotland or Ireland ... But don't know if even these teams will be convinced to visit.


Will Pak go past BD if they bt ZIM 3-0 and BD loses against IND 3-0?


Nice to see cricket again in Pakistan.  Masakadza just cracked two boundaries in a row


Mohammed Sami still has the pace


I am wishing all the best to the Pakistan and Zimbabwe cricket teams, officials and the local Pakistani fans on the first international series in 6 years. Hope the tour goes well without any occurrence.


Masakadza six more runs


Keep it up Zimb... good going so far!


This is the worst situation for us. The good news is our position will be unchanged.


33/0 4.3 overs. Let go Masaaaaa.






#5 at home against #12.


7.5 runs!!!! Go Zimbabwe


Notice Ireland has dropped off the list. Three years 8 games is cut-off.


Masakadza safe on a runout third umpire decision


First one gone


Second one gone, Masakadza. . Mohammed Sami is on a hattrick. He is use to take them


double wickets!!!



end of Zimb


Back to back boundaries for coventry,. Remember him


SR is good. Losing wickets by the heeps not.


Coventry was out on a bad decision by the umpire.


My prediction they will score 160-170

 Let's see what happen next.


Akmal brothers gone still they haven't find an good WK option so far. I thought Sarfarz was good but since WC his WK quality has gone down.


101/4. I think this is enough. They need to declare it now.


Good for the Pakistani fans to see international cricket after long time. Good to see International cricket has resumed back there. More of these smaller teams likes: Zim, Ire, Afg. Will encourage SL and BD in couple years for sure, if things go well and smooth!




batting paradise... Pakistan will chase any target!!


Zimbabwe doing well. So far. 142-5 17overs. Sikandar Butt just went soft dismissal! 



zimbos can get upto 160-170


good stuff from chigumbura!!!

180 on the card


Chigumbura is one of the most underrated T20-ODI players. Not that great avarage but OK for ZIM standard. And good strike rate too. He played great and better than some of the top international players in 2012 and  2013 BPL.


Ramis is rivaling shamim to be the most irritating


what an innings by Elton Chigumbura 53runs  off 33 balls


damn... 180 seems unlikely now!!


Need to get Chigumbura back on strike. Zim need 180, its a flat highway this wicket.


Ramiz is over excited like a little kid who just learnt how to walk.


Pakistan are the worst fielding side in the world


172-6 20 overs -ZIM. Good score. Runs on the board. Go Zimbos!


I love Pakistani drop catches 



it should have been 180+... seems like no big hitter post number 5


Always been. Always will. Without any question of doubt.


anyone has any link please, thank you


http://www.watchcric.net/channel/live-cricket_5


You go muktar : 4444


 bowling  Pak 71/0 after only 6 over


Same old Zim I'm afraid.



OK-ish batting, terrible bowling.



Raza is not an all rounder


Mukhtar is destryoing zimbabwe bowling.. What a beasty bating!


So 200 would have been chased down. Well done both teams.


Watching game at the end, make me think Pakistan made it look like interesting match. didn't want to finish until last over.




if only Zim had won...


Gaddafi stadium 


Why Wahab was so hyped?


ask Shane Watson.




Can't expect much from zimbos.  . All that's left is mediocricy like Raza


Second t20 just started


Pakistan fielding is just the same


Just over a 100 for one wicket, 13 overs... Zimbabwe go all guns blazing


Elton on fire!!!!! Back to back sixes


Good play from Chigumbura


With this bowling, Pakistan is certainly the weakest team in the subcontinent now. I'll be upset if Bangladesh or WI doesn't get a chance to play in the champions trophy.


First one down , shehzad. Looked out of sorts for a player if his caliber


Match is quickly turning in Zimbabwe s favor


and zim's choking streak continues.


Maybe its just me. But i thought it was extremely poor decision of vittori (esp considering he is left arm bowler) to bowl from round the wicket against a tail-ender. Their favorite shot is whacking blindly anything that's just going away from the off stamp.Even more surprised nobody told him to change the side after first bowl six.


Zim won T-20s against Aus in 2007, WI in 2010 - both away from home. ODIs, win against WI, Pakistan and NZ. Of late, in 2014 they beat Australia too.



http://www.espncricinfo.com/ci/engine/match/736449.html


good fight by Zim, lol Pak are so far from winning it in style.

Pak bowling is good for Tests but for limited over formats their bowling leaks too many runs and the poor fielding doesn't help.

Zim should take batting first in ODIs if they win the toss, if they manage 260+ they can make Pak choke.


Surprised there is no interest in this series. Other than the obvious significance this series holds for Pakistani cricket fans, being that this is the first international series being held in Pakistan in six years, this series should be of a lot of interest to Bangladeshi fans as well as a single win for Zimbabwe in the ODIs will take us to the Champions Trophy in 2017. Go Zimbabwe!


There is a thread on this series already


First ODI on today, will have consequences on our rankings so it will be interesting to see who wins


Zim are officially the worst fielding team in the world now. Every game they drop a minimum of 3 chances.



Pakistan on course for a huge total anyway, will be very tough for Zim to chase but the pitch is a belter


Come on Pakistan, this is the powerplay, do something.


Even S. Malik is getting runs....and getting runs with good SR.

  

 Are the ZIM that bad?


Yea. They are now rivals with Afghanistan and scotland


Zimbabwe's bowling is what making them mediocre.




Pakistan wins, just barely. Pakistan and Zimbabwe are fairly similar teams now, Pakistan surviving on home advantage. No wonder both got whitewashed in Bangladesh.


Zim are doing well just by hanging in here. Its not so much a choke. Zim have only won 10 games across formats against G8 sides since Streak left in 2004. And three of those were against India's then A team and Sri Lanka minus Sanga or MJ.


300 on the card for Pak


Wow, malik's highest odi score in last 31 innings




Even worse for them is that Vitori,their fastest pacer at the moment, has to be called for chucking soon, seems pretty blatant.



400 could be on here, brutal stuff


damn, this goes to show you how much our players improved. This same batting line up  crumbled against our bowlers.


Zimbabwe has the worst bowling lineup in the world; we saw it in the world cup



