

on Bangladesh
On the night of 1st July when I switched the knob to Somoy TV past 10 pm, I came across the live telecast of the seize of Holey Artisan Bakery at Gulshan by some gunmen. Breath-holding we were following the events. RAB, Police and people were gathered outside the area. Injured police and civil dressed person came out from dark to the scene and they were taken away for treatment. Then heard 2 officers have been killed by the miscreants and 30 police were admitted in United Hospital. Past 11 pm , Mr. Benajir Ahmed, Chief of RAB came to the spot and asked the reporters to stop their live telecast as it would benefit the miscreants and made the work difficult for law enforcers.
From then on, TV channels were only telecasting the update news on the event. I was listening to a lengthy analysis in 71 TV by a Top Security Analyst after 12 am. But he was fearing that the discussion might be heard by the miscreants also and might use it to set their strategy.Later we were informed that all the telephone and TV lines were cut off by the police by that time. The channel then telecast an interview with an Indian Citizen whose daughter was inside the cafe. He was asking why the law enforcers not then start negotiation with the hostage takers.
At 4 pm, there were no new updates. More people thronged the place, more law enforcers in the surrounding. People were pushed away beyond a barricade line.
Past 7-30 am, army made the raid and killed the miscreants- 6-7 in number (later the no is adjusted to 5). By this time, the miscreants have killed 20 hostages, 9 of them Italians, 7 from Japan and 3 from Bangladesh. Army rescued 11 hostages, 3 of whom are foreigners.
On my first thought , I was on the impression that the miscreants would be from Madrasha (religious educational institutions) and astonished to find that most of them are from English Medium School/College or University and from well off families.
It is highly disturbing why these boys from affluent families took up this path of destruction for themselves and for others. Probably this conviction came out of psychological conflicts these children were suffering in their home and in society, more at home. In Bangladesh, affluence come more in illegal ways that may distort the psyche of these children and prompted them to take up a short-cut way to correct the society and to pay off the debts of their parents.
An ordinary citizen
News Link : Dhaka cafe attack ends with 20 hostages among dead
Attack result of failed institution
Dhaka restaurant attack designed to reverberate globally
Sheikh Hasina must call Islamic Terrorism what it is
No comments yet — be the first.



on Bangladesh
This is something unusual in Bangladesh- to kill the wife to take revenge on a police officer. But this happened on morning June 5 2016 at Chittagong when the mother of 2 children was shot dead from close range when she was walking towards the school bus to lift her elder son. The husband, promoted to SP few days earlier, away to Dhaka to join his new assignment.
The event made Babu Akhter known to every citizen for the tragedy and the pain deepens for the professional excellence and recognition that he had achieved by this time. People got the impression that his wife was murdered because of his action against the militants and the terrorists over the last few years. Coming back from Dhaka he himself lodged the case against the unknown killers and bowed to take the revenge. Police arrested few suspects, 2 of whom were also killed in the crossfire.
He returned back to Dhaka with his 2 children and started to stay in his father-in-laws house. Bereaved and shocked he didn’t join his office. A few days later he was taken to the Police Headquarter at midnight, he was quizzed for 15 hours his alleged involvement in the killing of his wife. He was released after the interrogation. Later we are informed from Police authority that he was given the option to resign from his job or to face jail. He preferred to resign. But he himself said nothing to the media. His father-in-law, who was also a police officer, denied any involvement of him in the murder. People raised question why on earth a man would kill his wife hiring miscreants and if he did the murder why it is not be proved by proper evidence and be punished by the judiciary.
Weeks later he went to the Police Office and put an application expressing his willingness to join his service withdrawing his earlier resignation. His application was forwarded to the higher authority. But before his joining was considered , his earlier letter of resignation was accepted by the President of the Republic and notified in the gazette. The whole process has made in a very short span of time which is totally unprecedented in Bangladesh context. In the debate, Prime Minister has taken no side. But people had expected that his case would be considered fairly.
The termination was a double blow for the man.
And there is no progress in the murder case.
An ordinary citizen
No comments yet — be the first.



on Bangladesh
Corona is raging through the countries starting from Wuhan China in December 2019, then devastating initially China , then attacking other countries -Iran, Italy and other European countries, USA and Canada, India and Bangladesh and by now 200 countries of the world are affected.
Though so far by this time Bangladesh only 49 cases infected and 5 deaths. But Bangladesh is vulnerable to Corona attack as I see for many a reasons :
Bangladesh is a poor country and not equipped to cope with the onslaught of the Corona.
Bangladesh health structure is poor and Intensive care is very limited .
Lock down is imposed . But support to the poor is limited .
Bailing out of the economy is limited.
Detection of the cases is still limited and isolation and quarantine measures are inadequate.
The steps to contain the virus started late.
Political divisiveness is sharp. National consensus is poor.
An ordinary citizen
No comments yet — be the first.



on Bangladesh
Corona pandemic also affects India. Lock down was imposed in the country when the no of corona cases only hit about 500. Many appreciated the boldness of PM Modi to declare the lock down over 1.3 billion people in such a straight way. The WHO also appreciated his effort saying India is the epicenter to fight against the Corona Pandemic.
But people started asking question whether the effort is timely and all comprehensive.
Detecting cases was initially slow. Only those coming from abroad and tracing contact of positive cases were only done. Detection labs were few than the need demands. By the more labs were permitted and equipped, many cases may be lost in the community.
Hundreds of thousands daily earners become jobless and fell in uncertainty, started to leave the cities to reach their home defying the assurance of the chief ministers and breaking the basic principle of social distancing. The travel may cause transmission of the virus beyond the cities and into the rural areas.
Central and state governments are trying to stop the migrant workers at the borders by sealing the borders and pushing back the workers to the cities creating a humanitarian crisis at places.
Security forces went to the extent to pour water mixed with bleaching powder onto the escaping workers with their families including children. The measure was immediately condemned and authority explained that the instruction was to clean the transports only in which the migrants were carrying away.
By today, the total case in India is 1251 and death is 32.
Let us see whether India is at the end of its struggle or at the start of the long journey.
An ordinary citizen
No comments yet — be the first.



on Bangladesh
By 26/6/2020, 9,811,304 cases have been affected and 494,066 died in the whole world. More than 200 countries have been affected. There is no sign of regression of the affection even after 6 months of its beginning. The infection is on the rise is many countries of South America, Africa, and South Asia. Resurgence is taking place in previously affected countries such the USA, parts of Europe, and South Korea.
Corona is a tiny organism, only a few microns in diameter. So it can escape the human ability to detect it by normal sight, even a normal microscope cannot detect it, only an electron microscope can detect it in a special lab.
Then how a human being will able to protect himself when actually he can not see it? So far hand washing, social distancing ad face mask are the only preventive measures. Then each of the measures has its own limitation. You can not be on continuous handwashing, in between one hands will be contaminated; social distancing is not always possible and there is no 100% effective face mask. N95 is 95% effective and not everyone is using it and very few are using it perfectly.
Corona spread in droplets by coughing ,sneezing and talking. Experiment showed that the particles may spread beyond 6 ft, even beyond 12 ft. Then what is the utility of maintaining a 6-meter distance? The virus can survive on surfaces from 3 hours to few days depending on the nature of surfaces. It can adhere to knobs and hooks, handles, and switches. How can you resist yourself from touching the surfaces and avoid not to be infected by corona?
When it enters into the body Corona initially strongly adheres to the epithelium of the upper respiratory tract by its spikes: Who does try to dislodge it by frequently drinking water ? It can survive temp upto 57 degree centigrade. Who does try to kill it by drinking warm water which hardly cross 40 degree ? Who try to shift it from throat to intestine by drinking liquids when diarrhea is a symptom of corona itself?
Corona spreads to lungs causing pneumonia to ARDS, developing thromboembolism affecting lungs, kidney, brain, cause shock, and multi-organ failures leading to deaths.
The only good thing that I am seeing is that CoVID cause no to mild symptoms in 80 %, moderate symptoms in 15%, severe in 5%, who may need high flow oxygen and among this severe 1-2 % is critical, who may need ventilation.
Whatever precaution one may take, it nearly impossible to be 100% protective. So one will encounter the corora whether he is at home or in the hospital and in offices or in the streets.
The main determinant against the CoVID-19 is the immunity one has. But the immunity is only be tested once corona is entered into one’s body.
Let us wait for the day. But nobody would escape from Corona. One will have to survive only by fighting it over.
No comments yet — be the first.



on Bangladesh
Corona Virus was first detected in Bangladesh in 8 March 2020 . After 4 months it is still prevailing. Though it was initially thought that the virus will not prevail long- may survive for one or two months. A study from Singapore forecast that the corona virus would subside in Bangladesh by May 2020. May was passed. Now on 23/7/2020 , the no of the infected person is 216110 and no of deaths 2i801 in Bangladesh. It is raging throughout Bangladesh and there is no sign of relief from corona.
Bangladesh was in virtual lockdown for about 2 months from March 25 , 2020, It was difficult for the country to continue the lockdown beyond the period. It was becoming almost impossible to feed the poor because of the scarcity of funds as well as pilferage in distribution. There were suggestions to tighten the grip, to halt the transport, and to keep the markets closed. But the government preferred to decide to the contrary. Only educational institutions are kept closed.
The Government allowed Eid Fitr jammat to be held in the mosques, not at the outdoor, maintaining social distances and wearing masks. People attended the congregation not strictly following the directives and continue to attend the mosque in the same manner.
Markets opened before Eid. People started to gather in the market partly maintaining the restrictions only. Vehicles started to ply over the roads but not following the restrictions seriously.
Offices are also in the same mood.
There is no sign of decline in corona cases in Bangladesh and deaths from corona remains steady.
There is virtually no other way for the government but to allow the people to pursue their livelihood and sustain the economy of the country.
We are living with CoVID-19.
No comments yet — be the first.



