

The commerce ministry has ordered e-commerce businesses to ensure transparency in the burgeoning sector and...
The Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) has ordered a mass transfer of doctors, including...
The border district of Kushtia has registered 13 deaths due to COVID-19 in the 24...
The ongoing hard lockdown, which is seen essential to contain both Covid fatalities and infections, has again hit the poor and low-income people hard. In...
The country’s merchandise trade deficit with the...
The inflow of remittance grew by over...
Amazon.com Inc and India's Tata Group have warned government officials that the plans for tougher rules for online retailers would have a major impact on...
Canada's real gross domestic product (GDP) shrank...
International tourism arrivals are set to stagnate...
অষ্টম শ্রেণি পর্যন্ত পড়ার পর কাজ নিয়েছিলেন ঢাকা মেডিকেল কলেজ হাসপাতালের ওয়ার্ড বয় হিসেবে। সেই চাকরি ছেড়ে ‘ডাক্তার’ সেজে খুলেছেন চেম্বার; নামের পাশে লাগিয়েছেন চিকিৎসা...
Trading time on the Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE) and Chittagong...
Stocks slipped into the red on Tuesday, snapping a four-day...
European Union antitrust regulators have extended until July 27 the...
Insurance broker Aon’s offer to sell assets in five EU...
The Bangladesh Bank has extended the transaction timing in banks for customers by one hour to 2:30 pm. As per a new circular issued by the central bank, now banks will carry out transactions from 10 am to 2:30 pm with effect from Thursday (July 8) i...
Amid a gradual spike in dengue cases following the trend of previous years during monsoon Bangladesh reported 32 new cases...
Foreign Minister Dr AK Abdul Momen on Tuesday said the government stands ready to heartily embrace any regional collaboration, cooperation...
The Appellate Division of the Supreme Court on Tuesday conducted the virtual hearing in different cases in a full-fledged manner...
BNP on Monday called upon the government to...
Information and Broadcasting Minister Dr Hasan Mahmud on...
Once the fast-flowing river Chandana is almost dried...
The road on the Kalmakanda border upazila in...
As many as 767 women were raped in...
Members of Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) detained a...
Israel’s parliament early on Tuesday failed to renew a law that bars Arab citizens from extending citizenship or residency rights...
Rescuers in Japan waded through mud, rock and splintered wood...
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi let the world know on...
US President Joe Biden will mark the nation's 245th birthday on Sunday with a traditional celebration looking forward to a...
As American troops left their main military base in Afghanistan...
The United States has taken further actions against the Burmese...
There are no survivors after a plane carrying 28 people crashed in the far east of Russia on Tuesday, Russian...
Sweden will ease many of its restrictions aimed at slowing...
Two-thirds of countries classified as ‘not free’ because of their...
At least 43 migrants drowned in a shipwreck off Tunisia as the travellers, including Bangladeshis, tried to cross the Mediterranean...
Ethiopia's government has declared a ceasefire in its war-torn Tigray...
Newspapers in their Sunday issues carried in a number of stories concerning food aid for the poor in different parts of the country. In Lalpur of Natore, a telephone call to 333 brought succour for 26 destitute people from the upazila administration under the prime minister's food aid programme. The Ramna zone of the Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP) started a...
Schools and colleges which were scheduled to resume classes from June 30 cannot open before July 31. It is the latest extension of the countrywide school closure. Now that a fresh Covid-19 shutdown has been in force, students attending online classes are found to be linked to their respective teachers, with the students glued to their smart-phones or desktops. This...
This year's budget comes on the 50th Anniversary of our Independence and Bangabandhu's Birth Centenary. Besides, the run-up to the LDC exit (2026) has already...
A large section of people in this society takes a...
Dhaka Premier League (DPL) is one of the most recognised...
Dating back to the early 90s, the advertising industry of...
For the endurance of Covid-19, the government announced 23 stimulus...
Numair Ahmmed, a sophomore majoring in Economics at the University of Dhaka, was having quite an issue with his third...
The University Grants Commission has asked residential students at public...
The Hungarian government will provide full scholarships to 130 Bangladeshi...
Chinese technology giant Huawei on Tuesday refutes reports that it is set to launch two test satellites for 6G technology...
Hundreds of American businesses were hit Friday by an unusually...
Facebook is starting to warn some users they might have seen...
A leaked health ministry document has prompted calls in Thailand for medical staff inoculated against COVID-19 to be given a...
The highly contagious Delta variant of the coronavirus is surging...
Johnson & Johnson has said its single-shot COVID-19 vaccine showed...
Brazil forward Neymar said he hopes Argentina will be their opponents in the Copa America final and has no doubts...
Many Brazil players didn't want to take part in the...
Lionel Messi scored a free-kick and served up two assists...
Unlike in Bollywood romantic flicks, that happily-ever-after endings always don't happen in the real lives of celebrity couples. The same...
Aamir Khan and Kiran Rao, who have been together for...
Popular Bangla singer Kabir Suman has been hospitalised after he...
Unless one has the luck and luxury of a phoenix hairpin, a four-leaf clover, and the mellowest pearl from the...
If you think you have Covid-19, it might be best...
A passenger was taken to the hospital Friday night after...
© 2021 - All Rights with The Financial Express



The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) has formed a high-powered committee to find out the possible challenges of the country after graduating from the least developed country (LDC) in 2026 and overcome those challenges.
The 22-member committee, comprising public and private sector representatives, will determine the impacts of the LDC graduation on different sectors, prepare plans for handling the challenges, implement the plans, and monitor these.
The PMO issued a gazette on Tuesday on forming the body, headed by the PMO principal secretary.
The committee members from public sector include secretaries and top officials of different ministries and departments, including the National Board of Revenue (NBR), Finance Division, General Economic Division (GED), Economic Relations Division, Bangladesh Investment Development Authority, Bangladesh Trade and Tariff Commission, Planning Commission, and ministries of Information and Communication Technology (ICT), foreign affairs, commerce, industries, agriculture, environment, and liberation war.
From private sector, presidents of the Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FBCCI), Dhaka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (DCCI), and Bangladesh Association of Pharmaceuticals Industries (BAPI) have been included as members of the committee.
The PMO Executive Cell director has been made its member-secretary.
The committee will take necessary initiatives to expand bilateral, multilateral and international trade.
It will also prepare recommendations to frame favourable customs policies that are consistent with free trade agreements (FTA) or preferential trade agreements (PTA).
As per work-plan of the committee, all the ministries and departments will prepare their respective time-bound and specific plans.
The body will receive the plans and ensure their proper implementation through providing advice and monitoring, the gazette said.
The committee members will conduct a mapping of responsible and associate ministries and departments on the basis of sectors determined for them. The body will sit quarterly to review updates.
Bangladesh has met all three eligibility criteria for the LDC graduation, involving income per capita, human assets, and economic and environmental vulnerability.
The Committee for Development Policy of the United Nations (UN CDP) is set to recommend taking Bangladesh out of the list of LDCs.
After graduation as a middle-income country, Bangladesh will lose LDC-specific preferences, particularly in the area of duty-free quota-free (DFQF) access to export markets.



We have never seen the volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity (VUCA) that we are seeing today. The second wave of Covid has already started to rip through businesses causing havoc. Considering the VUCA the environment demands that someone react quickly to ongoing changes that are unpredictable and out of control, while during uncertainty the environment requires you to act without certainty.
In complex parameter, the environment is dynamic, with many dependencies while in ambiguous parameter, the environment is unfamiliar, beyond one's expertise.
The factors during the ongoing VUCA need to be rigorously monitored are: - impact of technology: assessing how technology is impacting your business (Product/Service delivery). Businesses also need to check technology trends and track technological shifts like AI, chat bots, big data, automations, etc.
In shifting financial markets - disruptive ideas whether competition is being introduced in any market should be focused on while in case of customer evolution businesses should figure out consumer behaviour changes. Careful monitoring of customers' trend and quick reacting to them will bring success in the strategies.
Based on this factor analysis businesses must update their SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats) and map their resource skills and capacities. If assessment showcases skill upgradation is required, immediate training initiatives has to be taken. Businesses must re-assess their market, customers' markets and suppliers' markets. Situation dictates refreshment of these assessments is needed regularly to keep the business strategy aligned.
Simultaneously keeping an eye on regulators and court orders is important and regular communications with the regulators are important so that businesses can assist in terms of taking the right kind of decisions.
While aligning strategic objectives they must be well funded (Don't be near-sighted, re-align your financial priorities).
In such a case there may be short term results vs long term strategic initiatives. One should find projects that need to be stopped to stop them immediately while reallocating resources to next successful projects. Delivery channel / distribution channel should be reassessed to balance their entire portfolio of initiatives across long term and short term.
Considering all the dynamic initiatives being taken for updating the business strategies, execution of strategy is important and for that, communications must be done down the level for better alignment. For better executions department-wise activities must be listed down and explained internally for assessing how it is tied to the larger strategy. If assessment shows that it's not tied up, stop that activity.
Technics are there to tackle the scenario but it won't complement if the leadership approach is not customised accordingly. Leaders will have to work on their vision, focus more on short-term and mid-term initiatives as disruptions are coming more quickly than ever.
Alongside these VUCA fighting, leaders will have to rely more on data. It's very important to bring digitisation into business operations so that more accurate trend analysis of the services and products can be done. Reacting to market behaviour is going to be easy within a very small period. Fighting uncertainty is going to be less challenging.
Leaders will have to dig down more to the complexity so that they can identify the problematic areas and gradually work on bringing clarity by solving the most important problems. Eventually following this step would ease the situation.
www.facebook.com/shafaat.ali.choyon
In complex parameter, the environment is dynamic, with many dependencies while in ambiguous parameter, the environment is unfamiliar, beyond one's expertise.
The factors during the ongoing VUCA need to be rigorously monitored are: - impact of technology: assessing how technology is impacting your business (Product/Service delivery). Businesses also need to check technology trends and track technological shifts like AI, chat bots, big data, automations, etc.
In shifting financial markets - disruptive ideas whether competition is being introduced in any market should be focused on while in case of customer evolution businesses should figure out consumer behaviour changes. Careful monitoring of customers' trend and quick reacting to them will bring success in the strategies.
Based on this factor analysis businesses must update their SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats) and map their resource skills and capacities. If assessment showcases skill upgradation is required, immediate training initiatives has to be taken. Businesses must re-assess their market, customers' markets and suppliers' markets. Situation dictates refreshment of these assessments is needed regularly to keep the business strategy aligned.
Simultaneously keeping an eye on regulators and court orders is important and regular communications with the regulators are important so that businesses can assist in terms of taking the right kind of decisions.
While aligning strategic objectives they must be well funded (Don't be near-sighted, re-align your financial priorities).
In such a case there may be short term results vs long term strategic initiatives. One should find projects that need to be stopped to stop them immediately while reallocating resources to next successful projects. Delivery channel / distribution channel should be reassessed to balance their entire portfolio of initiatives across long term and short term.
Considering all the dynamic initiatives being taken for updating the business strategies, execution of strategy is important and for that, communications must be done down the level for better alignment. For better executions department-wise activities must be listed down and explained internally for assessing how it is tied to the larger strategy. If assessment shows that it's not tied up, stop that activity.
Technics are there to tackle the scenario but it won't complement if the leadership approach is not customised accordingly. Leaders will have to work on their vision, focus more on short-term and mid-term initiatives as disruptions are coming more quickly than ever.
Alongside these VUCA fighting, leaders will have to rely more on data. It's very important to bring digitisation into business operations so that more accurate trend analysis of the services and products can be done. Reacting to market behaviour is going to be easy within a very small period. Fighting uncertainty is going to be less challenging.
Leaders will have to dig down more to the complexity so that they can identify the problematic areas and gradually work on bringing clarity by solving the most important problems. Eventually following this step would ease the situation.
www.facebook.com/shafaat.ali.choyon



