


Bezos and Musk also saw their wealth grow immensely during the pandemic. It is
only a consequence of money moving away from gold to the more safer stock of
fast growing companies. No need to insinuate that corruption is the reason.


Mr. Sunny..... Modi is doing so many and so many good things which are
open to verification and which I put up in my comment. Anyway Ambani and
Adani were very and very rich even during the UPA years as they have not
become rich overnight or during the Modi years and any way their respective
businesses are absolutely in no way connected with Modi and his government.
And also in the very article now where it is insinuated \ said indirectly that
it suspected of some foul play with regards to their becoming so rich or
becoming so rich. So why you comment based on hunches, prejudices, non
facts, non truths, doubts and partisan opinions? Be honest, be sincere to
the Almighty, be with integrity and be with honest thinking.


Since the very all powerful Almighty Himself is with Modi and his government
and so Modi, his government, BJP and NDA can never be defeated in any
elections or in any manner. Truth is with Modi and his government. Facts are
﻿﻿with Modi and his government﻿﻿.The reality is﻿﻿with Modi and his
government﻿﻿. All these fake rich farmer and atriya protests will be defeated
by the all powerful Almighty for once and for all. Corrupt people, scamsters
and looters too will get get defeated by the all powerful Almighty. Period.


There was a lot of vaccine hesitancy initially during the 1st and 2nd
vaccine drives through out India when the health workers and front line
workers were given top priority chance \ opportunity of 1st and 2nd
recipients. The capacity utilization in the 1st and 2nd vaccination drives
was only around 50 % (in case of health workers) and around 60 % (in case of
front line workers). Only after the starting of the 3rd massive vaccination
drive for the above 60 years category plus people above 45 with comorbidities
with  Narendra Modi, PM himself took the first shot and thus so
successfully kick started the program and so as a consequence and as a massive
encouragement now a days almost not less than one million successful
vaccinations are happening in India.  ﻿ Because of Modi taking the vaccine
and so as a result nearly 6 fold the vaccine taking up by Indians increased
incredibly﻿!!!! Now the total vaccinated Indians till today roughly stands
out at 2.8  (28 million people) and it is the ﻿ 3 rd highest
vaccinated country﻿ after US 9.8  (98 million ) and China 5  (50
million). But even now in the 3rd massive vaccination drive the capacity
utilization is only around 60 % !!!! Still the vaccine hesitancy is the
biggest problem India is facing currently as far as the massive vaccinations
are concerned. Period. But any way slowly and slowly people will get out of
the vaccine hesitancy as more and more people take the vaccine.


Now, no one would be happier than the DUO. Their relentless labour has yielded
results. 'National Bhaipo' is also emerging. He has proved his charisma in
business by increasing his wealth from some 50th. to 80  within a year.
He has now on apprenticeship in the world of sports to increase business
connectivity. Carry on DUO, no one will match your sincerity in 100 years.


Where is ED now ?


Under the blanket..


Mr. navi king........If there is any illegitimacy \ illegality then ED
will interfere automatically as otherwise what is the need for ED in this
instance ?


Important to note, Adani '﻿﻿a first-generation entrepreneur﻿﻿'. Built his
empire all by himself. Certainly a role model for many who wish to succeed.
Much shame to the Pappus of the world, whose only claim to fame rides on
family ties. Well done sir, you make India proud. As India grows to a $5
trillion economy, we will see many like you.


﻿ Spotlessly And Immaculately Spot On﻿


Came up just like that? are you coming out from hibernation?


5 trillion for whom and where ?


You are just like your name.


Feel your pain. Don't worry, it will pass soon.





RSS founder is Marathi, BJP/Jan Sangh founder is Bengali. No need to spread
hate against Gujarati if you disagree with Modi


It is more hilarious than fodder for pride. Adani got the jackpot in the same
year India had its only official recession in more than half a century,
managed to hit world's worst GDP growth rates in two consecutive quarters
based on already crashing pre-Covid growth rates of GDP for eight consecutive
qtrs, managed to reach pre Covid and on Covid unemployment rates worst in 45
years , allowed millions of small business and migrant workers to perish for
good - in inglorious deaths, have historically highest domestic fuel rates
ever achieved (at even double the international fuel prices in the past,
prices never came to even 80% of this level), watched closely, thumbs in our
mouths, greatest exodus of financial crooks decamping with unheard of public
money but did nothing to actually anything to bring back any stashed funds
abroad, drove millions of people below poverty lines, hit second highest Covid
infection rate in the world although all Asian countries did much much better
than the Europe or America etc. etc. Are Indians the most self confessed
fools in the world that they take pride for a crook who thieved when the
nation submerged into misery? Well done India. :)


Only thing you have not done is blame Modi for the coronavirus itself You are
perfect example of someone who writes pages of utter nonsense knowing fully
well he won't need to substantiate anything.


Why, I have ONLY quoted substantiated and published news reports and
statisticssingle based inferences, not a single statement is my own fact, they
are all public facts. Pl be rational in your comments. Thank you.


Rational? what does it mean? If I had known what it means, I would not have
been clapping when the nation is sliding down the slippery slope.


Good luck to Adani with all his billions ( $US, not Indian rupees)

  

I just want 15  rupees promised to me by Narendra .


Work is fine SK, you also need to be given opportunities, need luck etc


﻿“Ask not what your country can do for you – ask what you can do for your
country,”﻿. Read the autobiography of any successful person


Has Adani written an autobiography?





As a salaried worker, my taxes get deducted from my pay.





Thanks to MoSha regime!


god's = Supreme Leader ?


> Business comes naturally to these people.














Still a bit of help from the right quarters also helps.


I don't have the connections.


Who will be the richest Adani or Ambani? Maybe Adani as he is

﻿﻿﻿﻿the King of Ports.﻿﻿﻿﻿


Sriram Kalpathi ..........May be Adani as he is the King of ports which
you very rightly said.


One should know one's limit in one's life. Aspirations and ambitions are
required for human beings.Aspirations differ from person to person. One should
learn to admire people,who succeed in the field they have chosen. For example,
Sachin Tendulkar must be admired for attaining the pinnacle of glory in the
Cricketing World.Similarly, Adani and Ambani must be admired for standing Tall
in the world of Business.


﻿ Sriram Kalpathi﻿ ..........Your comment is simply great, honest,
sincere and noble and I appreciate you a lot for the later. Thank you.





Absolutely right. Where is ED and IT now




Indians although being ill-treated in western countries still go there as
 n accept all the ill treatments including racism. They themselves r
racist in their country when it comes to colour, Cast, religion but thy don't
want themselves to be treated similar ways when thy barge into foreign
countries legally but mostly illegally.


There is a problem that should be solved in a efficient way that's all. Don't
name it as this or that. We are living in competitive and modernized world to
appreciate the oneness of the humanity. Yes we have so many problems and we
can find out solutions too. Regards


Isn't it a foolish thing to expect non racist behaviour from people who
practice racism and caste based discrimination at home! The Oxford University
itself is at fault here 😂


All the religions have caste system but they don't say. May be in different
ways. Catholics, protestants, Jacobite's, Born Again, Syrian, Marthoma,
Pentecost and others .Shia, Sunni, ,  and others. So please don't
find fault with only Hindus.


Very true... Indians at home r the more racists..


Of course!

  

Killing Charlie Hebdo employees and Samuel Paty was such a righteous action
that you, Ahmed was so stunned that you could not find words to say killings
are uncivilized, whatever be the reason.

  

You, actually celebrated.

  

Your true character was seen.

  

The murder manual uses the words that civilized people reject.


Pretty simple why they are doing it !

  

They won't tolerate a foreigner as head of their Union !


I do not know on what face our FM  is condemning racism in the UK
when his own government is fully involved in many racist events wholly
supported by his own party men; some are cabinet ministers too.


Lol, I wonder how much the modi followers get paid to thumbs down so many
comments, without offering their own, just saying😁


Lol, I wonder how much you have paid to buy tons of Burnol and cool the
burning all over your body, just saying 😁


USA Federal agency inserted wireless brain neural implants in Vikram Buddhi.

ITEMS INSERTED WHILE AT MCC CHICAGO (inter alia):

(1) Brain Neural implants under the skull and scalp.

(2) Fine wires running under the scalp at the back of the head, connected to
the embedded implants, which act as antenna for the wireless transmission of
brain signals.


Later, in order to hide and prevent the disclosure of the brain implants that
would bring criminal charges against government officials, Prime Minister of
India, Narendra Modi, gave approval to RAW agency in 2019 to kl Vikram
Buddhi--extra judicially. RAW has been trying ever since to kl Vikram Buddhi
by poisoning with nanoparticle neural/induction devices in food & water; by
targeting me with high powered microwaves; by sending ultrasound directly to
the neural implants to generate electric current and damage the brain
irreversibly; etc.


Sushant Singh Rajput was victim of Brain Neural Implants inserted in joint
operation by USA and Indian RAW intelligence and Indian Defence Ministry
Directorate of Signals Intelligence and was murdered to hide the evidence. The
code name for the director of this operation from RAW is "Vasant Phadke" who
also directed the destruction of evidence.


Dear  what about your Country where Caste-ism is practised day in
and day out.Even Political parties are allotting tickets on the basis of caste
composition of electorate in the constituency, When you will put your own
house in order before preaching others.Charity begins at home.


It is unfortunate that in the land of Mahatma Gandhi the godse's brats are
ruling the roost......Poor Jaishanker is forced to do damage control for the
boofheads of the  deceptive party......


Jaishankarji, I appreciate your highlighting Racism in other countries and
societies. But what about Casteism in India? You have no problem with it
because you are one of the beneficiaries? I thought being a highly educated
man and having served as Foreign Secretary and with all exposure you had with
other societies and cultures, you are a more enlightened person. But now we
know you are like your masters. In the last one year alone, your image has
been severely eroded among rationally thinking people. I know you do not care
as you are now part of BJP.


getting 50-70% reservation shamelessly in india on caste basis....how much
equality now you need.... Don't spit casteism-2 everywhere.... Its the general
category in India which is being devoid of its human rights, right to equality
and exploited financially as well as mentally....





No need to explain in any other way. It's an elected government resolution.
That's all that we appreciate


hello rice bag convert,

Then what about slave system in Christian countries & how slavery earlier &
now racist attacks on blacks.

For you , brown pastr @ s lkrs , everything bad about Hinduism .

Remove hatred



