

The Department of English has the same year of inception as the University of Delhi, 1922. The Department offers degrees at MA, MPhil and PhD levels and oversees undergraduate teaching at the 79 Colleges which are affiliated to the University. From 1970 the Department began functioning from two campuses: the main Campus at the Arts Faculty, North Delhi. Students also enroll at the Non-Collegiate Women's Education Board for the MA degree. We provide intensive mentoring to our students both in and beyond the classroom in a wide variety of forums. Ongoing lectures, film screenings, symposia, conferences, and colloquia on interdisciplinary themes make up our calendar.
Programmes: MA, MPhil, PhD
UGC-SAP III
Centres
Centre for Academic Translation and Archiving
Centre for Studies in Violence, Memory, and Trauma (CSVMT)
Center for Dalit Studies
Faculty Members
Please Visit DU ERP Samarth Portal



How to Know if a Girl is a Virgin
Does it bother you to think that your partner may have had other sexual partners before you? It is time to examine your feelings about it before a conflict arises in your relationship.
Sex is a deeply personal aspect of our lives. A healthy sex life between two monogamous partners is an indicator of their bond and commitment to each other. Whether most of us admit it or not, we place a high premium on being ‘exclusive’ with our partners – it is unthinkable to imagine that they might cheat on us with another person.
This brings us to the concept of virginity. Have you ever dwelled on the idea that your lover may have had other sexual partners before you? You may have dismissed the thought because what you have with your partner is precious – and you believe that their past is their business! But if it bothers you to think that your partner may have had sex with another person before you, or that you do not wish that they have had sex with anyone but you, then you need to rethink your ideas about virginity and sex before it becomes a point of contention between the two of you.
The emphasis on virginity
Many cultures around the world place a lot of importance on virginity; a virgin man or a woman who has never had sex. Many cultures believe that a person should be a virgin till they get married, and that their first (and only) sexual partner should be their spouse. The absence of virginity is seen as a sign of immoral character and a loss of the family’s honour.
A woman’s virginity is measured by whether she bleeds during the first time of sexual intercourse – this happens when her hymen (a thin membrane of skin inside the vagina) ruptures on penetrative intercourse.
However, there are many problems with this concept. Firstly, the hymen may rupture even due to intense sports, or due to a genetic condition, or masturbation. Secondly, ‘sex’ can also constitute fondling and oral sex without actual penetration. So technically, a person who has had oral sex but not peno-vaginal sex is not a virgin – or are they? Conservative cultures insist on women undergoing virginity tests to ascertain if the woman that they wish their son to marry is an honourable woman. The virginity test entails checking for an intact hymen. Sexually active women who may wish to get married in this traditional fashion may then undergo a discreet hymen reconstruction surgery so as to avoid the complications arising from her husband finding out about her non-virgin status.
It’s all about you…
Do you feel that your partner’s virginity is a barometer of their ‘purity’ and honour? Or is your relationship with them so rock-solid that their past does not bother you? It is time to examine your feelings about this, and to discuss your concerns with your partner.



When it comes to travel, you want to have a comfy stay, scrumptious food, adventure activities, and explore all famous places in your budget. Most of you try to get the best deals on hotels, flights, and even restaurants so that you don’t go out of budget. Curious to know which cities will cost you the most to travel around? We have listed below the top 10 expensive vacation destinations in the world.
1. Singapore
The city of Singapore is the most expensive city in the world to visit by tourists. Transportation costs heaps of money in this expensive city. If you want to buy and use a car, then you should have huge savings for it. Singapore’s government keeps the car’s rate highest to manage the total cars on the road. Other than this, clothes and even groceries are higher in rates. It is the most developed city with having buzzing foodie culture. It is mostly visited by honeymoon couples, professionals, and people with great wealth.
2. Paris, France
You can’t neglect the famous city of France, Paris that welcomes a huge number of tourists every year. Paris is also known as “The City of Romance” and famous among lovey-dovey couples. It is the most expensive vacation destination to visit by tourists. People just love to explore its quaint cafes, chocolates, wines, pastries, and the pretty Eiffel Tower at night. It is the best, but expensive city to visit by newly married couples. The royal castles, lavish cathedrals, and impressive architecture in the city make it a worth visit for tourists around the world.
3. Hong Kong
Hong Kong is the most expensive cities in the world to live in. However, you can still find cheaper options for eating, outdoor activities, and exploring the city’s landscape. You can choose public transport for commute and open markets for good. Apart from this, you can enjoy free hiking, beaches, and mountains on your vacation. Costs jump when you want to eat International cuisines, stay in a luxury hotel, and demand fancy drinks.
4. Zurich
Zurich is referred to as the most expensive city to visit in Europe. The whole of Switzerland is known for being a costly destination. A trip to Zurich for a week usually costs around Sfr1, 310 per head. However, based on the spending habits and the comfort, you can still choose to explore the city on a low budget. The cost of transportation and accommodation are significantly expensive in Zurich. To save money while touring this city, you can choose an apartment rather than a hotel, supermarkets for food rather than going to restaurants and go for public transport instead of a rental.
5. New York
When you talk about the most expensive countries to visit, New York can’t be neglected. Undoubtedly, it is the most expensive city to visit and live in. Making a budget trip o New York can be challenging, but still, it can be done if you do little research earlier before visiting the city. You can look for food at cheap prices at few places, and transportation charges can also be saved while choosing public transport. However, you can’t save more on accommodation and adventure activities.
6. Los Angeles
For all those wanderlust who are ready to spend on their vacation, Los Angeles is the best choice for them. However, when it comes to budget traveling, then it is not a good option. Tourists in Los Angeles will have to deal with expensive accommodation in hotels, tourist activities, food, and even rental cars. However, you can reduce a bit of cost by sharing the accommodation and having food from the street markets.
7. Tokyo, Japan
Japan is not a cheap place to take a tour, but yes it is not a prohibitively expensive country than you may think. You may still visit the city of Tokyo in the budget if you choose street food or cheap fast-food restaurants, accommodation in hostels, and transportation through trains or buses. However, Tokyo has the most expensive hotels and restaurants, but you can still find some hotel rooms under 100 USD per night.
8. Dubai
Dubai is popular for the world’s class shopping experience, iconic buildings, and luxury hotels. It has a self-proclaimed seven-star hotel, opulent mall, extraordinary nightlife, and what not? It is indeed not a cheap destination to visit by tourists, but yes it also depends on the spending habits of a person. You can choose budget hotels to save money on your accommodation, cheap restaurants instead of fancy ones, and public transport for travel.
9. Sydney
It comes under top 10 most expensive cities in the world to visit and the third position for the most expensive city for dinner out. Food and drinks are costly in this city, but there are few things that you can do for free. You can explore the free museums, art galleries, beautiful beaches, stunning public coastal walks that allow you to enjoy the spellbinding natural beauty of Sydney. Avoid expensive restaurants and choose to have authentic meals at chap spots.
10. London
While London is also one of the most expensive cities in the world, you can still plan a visit to this city on a low budget. However, you will have to skip the luxury and much more comfortable to do so. Choose to have a budget accommodation where you have a kitchen to cook your own meals and visit mainly free accommodation. You can also save more on air tickets by booking them through EaseMyTrip.



One can’t deny the fact that this world is full of masterpieces and non-traditional architectures. There are several unique things on this planet, including weird and unusual restaurants of the world, strange and unique temples, and unusual museums around the globe. Many architects have created countless man-made structures and large buildings that not only amaze visitors but also have gone beyond the boundaries of nature. There are numerous incredible buildings in the world that are known for their far-out shapes, awe-inspiring designs, and unique styles. We have compiled some of the most remarkable structures in the world you love to visit.
Independence Temple, USA
Independence Temple is a house of worship and education that is dedicated to the pursuit of peace. It is one of the most unusual structures of the world. The charming architecture in Missouri dominates the skyline of the city. The temple is the key point of the headquarters of the Community of Christ. Built by the Community of Christ in response to a revelation, architecture of the temple reminds the curved shell of the Nautilus with a stainless steel spire rising up to 300 feet. It presents an assortment of modern and traditional religious art from all around the world.
Ren Building, China
Ren Building is an attractively designed building in Shanghai. Copenhagen’s Bjarke Ingels Group (BIG) proposed this striking design of this building replicating the Chinese character of Person to correspond with Shanghai’s “Better City, Better Life” 2010 World Expo. The project was proposed for a hotel, sports and conference centre. The building was visualised as two buildings blending into one. The first building that emerged from the water was dedicated to activities of the body and housed sports and water culture center. The other building that emerged from the land was dedicated to the spirit and enlightenment and housed a tastefully equipped conference center.
Wing Shape Zayed National Museum, United Arab Emirates
Situated on Saadiyat Island, Abu Dhabi, UAE, this is the first museum in the island that showcases the history, culture, and the socio-economic transformation of the country. It features five wing-shaped towers projecting from an artificially landscaped mound having the galleries. The towers seem like thermal chimneys. The museum has different performance spaces. Its large auditorium boasts of a reminiscent set for presentations and films. The lobby blends with more venues to create a perfect atmosphere for traditional performances including poetry readings, music, and dance.
Basket Building, USA
Built in shape of a giant basket, Basket Building is a beautiful structure and a visual treat for those seeking to admire unique things of the world. Situated in Ohio, USA, it is among some of the weird structures of the world housing the headquarters of Longaberger Basket Company. The unique building is an exact imitation of a normal shopping basket and 160 times larger than a Longaberger’s medium basket. Due to its exclusive shape, it turned into one of most prime tourist attraction points of the city. With a wonderful design preserving all the details, this unique building has two attached handles.
Cybertecture Egg Office Building, India
Blending a natural shape with innovative technologies, this exclusive poultry-inspired office building is an architectural wonder for the visitors. The building is designed by a firm based in Hong Kong. The building boasts of an iconic architecture complimented with environmental design, excellent control systems, and evolutionary engineering. These features create the most exclusive building for the city of Mumbai.
Earth House, Switzerland
Resembling to real life Hobbit holes, Earth House is an architectural marvel styled through the natural terrains for forming the walls of a house. These are really homes erected into hillsides, with banked earth situated on the top of the basic structures. People live in this residence from many years. It is among the most unusual houses of the world.
Bubble Palace, France
Also known as Palais Bulles, Bubble Palace is a huge residence in Théoule-sur-Mer, close to Cannes, France. The building was designed by the Hungarian architect Antti Lovag and the period of its construction was from 1975 to 1989. The palace was actually built for a French industrialist but later on, a fashion designer named Pierre Cardin bought it as his holiday home. The 1200 square meters house comprises a front area, panoramic lounge, 500-seat open-air amphitheatre, 10 bedrooms, numerous swimming pools and waterfalls. It is decorated very beautifully.
Casa Batllo, Spain
Situated in the heart of Barcelona, Casa Batllo is one of the masterpieces of Antoni Gaudí. Comprised of a beautiful color combination and offering fantastic architectural splendour, it is an amazing building that captivates the visitors with its rare charm. The current building is the remodel of a formerly built house, which was restructured by Gaudí in 1904. It has been refurbished many times post that.
Casa Terracota, Colombia
Also called as Ceramic House, Casa Terracota is entirely built by hand through clay and parched in the sun. Located in a regal mountain village of Colombia, this unusual structure is also known as the ‘Casa de Flintstone’ or Flintstone House by locals. It appears like a large mound of clay, freely shaped to look like a cottage. This weird structure is surrounded by lush green farmland and positioned against a spectacular setting of the mountains.



