


From playing a lawyer who is a single mother in 'Four More Shots Please!' to a survivor of abuse in 'Criminal Justice: Behind Closed Doors', Kirti Kulhari said that she wants to tap into the varying degrees of complexity through her on-screen characters.
The 36-year-old-actor, however, is not averse to taking up a 'white character' provided it is written well.
"I want to play as complex characters as possible. I want to play dark and grey characters. I'm bored of playing white characters. But if a script comes up where a white character is written with a lot of depth and layers, I would like to play that too," said Kulhari.
She added, "Every role that I played is not simple to play. Human beings are not simple and to tap into so many aspects is not easy."
Kirti is looking forward to the release of her upcoming film 'Shaadistan'. In the movie, she plays a singer named Sasha, whom she described as 'a tigress when it comes to taking charge of her life'.
Directed by Raj Singh Chaudhary, the film follows the journey of four young free-spirited musicians, a small-town couple and their young daughter in a camper van, travelling from Mumbai to a small town in Rajasthan.
"To me, Sasha represents freedom, which is misunderstood by people in terms of freedom to do this or to do sex or whatever. When you say freedom, it means choosing your own life and how you want to live your life and who you want to be. Sasha does not seek validation for anything in her life," she shared.
The actor, who is set to play a doctor in the upcoming web series 'Human', said that she wants to keep reinventing herself.



Anil, who been acting in films since the late '70s, even after four decades in showbiz seems to be at the peak of his fitness and charm.
Anil Kapoor. Pic/Yogen Shah
The 'ever-young' Bollywood actor Anil Kapoor is one who is quite active on social media keeps fans updated about his life through regular posts. On Sunday, the star shared recent pictures from a photoshoot, proving yet again that age is just a number.
Anil, who been acting in films since the late '70s, even after four decades in showbiz seems to be at the peak of his fitness and charm. Sharing the photos on his Instagram handle, in the caption, he wrote "Being yourself is the easiest way of looking effortless..."
Even today, the 64-year-old star has been posing some serious challenge for the younger generation in the industry with his charismatic looks and swag.
The actor has often spoken about his love for fitness and how exercising regularly keeps him happy. In fact, his Instagram handle has several inspiring posts that show him in the midst of his exercise routine.
From running on the beach to skipping and trying out different workouts, Anil enjoys pushing himself when it comes to fitness.
Meanwhile, on the movie front, Anil was last seen in Anurag Kashyap's 'AK Vs AK' on OTT platform Netflix. The comedy-thriller also featured his daughter Sonam Kapoor Ahuja.
He will be next seen in Raj Mehta's directorial 'Jug Jugg Jeeyo' along with Varun Dhawan, Kiara Advani, and Neetu Kapoor in the lead roles.
Besides this, Anil will also be starring in Sandeep Reddy Vanga's 'ANIMAL' along with Ranbir Kapoor, Parineeti Chopra and Bobby Deol.
Also Read: Fatima Sana Shaikh on Anil Kapoor: He loves interacting with new talent
This story has been sourced from a third party syndicated feed, agencies. Mid-day accepts no responsibility or liability for its dependability, trustworthiness, reliability and data of the text. Mid-day management/mid-day.com reserves the sole right to alter, delete or remove (without notice) the content in its absolute discretion for any reason whatsoever



Shreya and her husband Shiladitya Mukhopadhyaya were blessed with their first child Devyaan on May 22.
Shreya Ghoshal Picture Courtesy: Mid-day Archives
Singer Shreya Ghoshal posted a video on Monday to share the news that she has taken her first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. The singer, who gave birth to her first child Devyaan on May 22, encouraged nursing mothers to get vaccinated.
"While #Devyaan was sleeping peacefully at home, I quickly went out to get my first dose of vaccination today!! It's absolutely safe for new mothers to get vaccinated for covid as recommended by my doctors. Just like anyone else, if your are a nursing mother, you too can get your shots. #covishield #vaccinationdone #covidvacccine," Shreya informed.
Shreya and her husband Shiladitya Mukhopadhyaya were blessed with their first child Devyaan on May 22. Introducing her newborn son to the world, the singer had posted: "Introducing- ‘Devyaan Mukhopadhyaya' He arrived on 22nd May and changed our lives forever. In that first glimpse as he was born he filled our hearts with a kind of love only a mother & a father can feel for their child. Pure uncontrollable overwhelming love. It is still feeling like a dream @sxxxxxxxxa and I are so grateful for this beautiful gift of life."
Also Read: Shreya Ghoshal, Shiladitya Mukhopadhyaya blessed with a baby boy
This story has been sourced from a third party syndicated feed, agencies. Mid-day accepts no responsibility or liability for its dependability, trustworthiness, reliability and data of the text. Mid-day management/mid-day.com reserves the sole right to alter, delete or remove (without notice) the content in its absolute discretion for any reason whatsoever



The story of 'Sunflower' revolves around a murder that happens at a housing society named Sunflower and the investigation that follows. Ranvir plays a police inspector in the show while Sunil is Sonu, one of the residents.
Ranvir Shorey. Pic/Yogen Shah
Actor Ranvir Shorey, who is playing a pivotal role in the upcoming web series 'Sunflower', says that Sunil Grover is an exciting actor to work with. "After I got the narration for 'Sunflower' I asked who is playing Sonu and I was told that Sunil will be doing it. I was readily excited to be part of the story then. It is a murder mystery and working with Sunil was such a delight. He is really a talented actor who is getting all the deserving chance now. He started with comedy so his journey was different. But really, Sunil is a very good actor," Ranvir told IANS.
The story of the show revolves around a murder that happens at a housing society named Sunflower and the investigation that follows. Ranvir plays a police inspector in the show while Sunil is Sonu, one of the residents. Ranvir has appeared in uniform earlier in 'Rangbaaz' and 'Lootcase', and he shared how he keeps the approach towards his performance fresh with every new cop role.
"As an actor I think I should not play it like a caricature and that is why I do not look at the character based on profession. "There could be two professional actors, who are completely two different personalities, right? It is the same with any two police officers as well, so keeping a few elements aside, I try and play the character, who happens to be a police officer. When you play characters, each time they are different and that is how I keep it fresh and engaging for the audience," shared Ranvir.
Directed by Vikas Bahl, the web series has a huge ensemble cast Mukul Chadha, Girish Kulkarni, Annapurna Soni, Dayana Erappa, Ashish Vidyarthi and Shonali Nagrani, along with Ranvir and Sunil. It releases on Zee5 on June 11.
Also read: Ranvir Shorey, Konkana Sensharma celebrate son Haroon's 10th birthday
This story has been sourced from a third party syndicated feed, agencies. Mid-day accepts no responsibility or liability for its dependability, trustworthiness, reliability and data of the text. Mid-day management/mid-day.com reserves the sole right to alter, delete or remove (without notice) the content in its absolute discretion for any reason whatsoever



Australian batting star Steven Smith warns India of bowling short stuff against him; says it could backfire on visitors
Australia's Steven Smith pulls a short ball from England's Jofra Archer on Day 4 at Lord's last year. Pic/ Getty Images
Australian run-machine Steven Smith has dared the lethal Indian fast bowling unit to bring on the short stuff in the upcoming marquee Test series, saying he has faced a lot of it in his life. According to the former captain, trying short-pitched bowling against him could work in Australia's favour. "If teams are trying to get me out like that it's probably a big benefit for the team because it takes a lot out of people's bodies if you continually bowl short," Smith told News Corp.
"I've faced a lot of short bowling in my life and I haven't had too many stresses with it. I suppose we'll just wait and see." Against New Zealand in the 2019-2020 season, Smith was dismissed by left-arm pacer Neil Wagner four times, as the Kiwi consistently attacked the batsman with short-pitched deliveries aimed at his body.
Jasprit Bumrah
Jasprit Bumrah
Smith, though, still managed to average nearly 43 in the three matches and wore the bowlers down with his dogged approach in the middle, helping the others to pile on the runs. "It's no dramas for me. I just play the game and sum up the conditions, how they're trying to get me out and being able to counter that," Smith said.
He acknowledged that Wagner executed it well, but others may not be able to replicate that. "I mean, a few different oppositions have tried it and they've certainly found it more difficult to [execute it] the way Wagner did. He's got an amazing skill set where his speeds go up and down...everything is between your ribs and your head."
Mohammed Shami
Mohammed Shami
India play three ODIs, three T20s and four Tests starting November 27. The ODI and T20 series will be played in Sydney and Canberra from November 27 to December 8.
Umesh Yadav
Umesh Yadav
The much anticipated Test series begins with the day-night Test at Adelaide from December 17. The Indian attack will comprise Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami in lead roles. The tourists will call on Ishant Sharma if he recovers from the side injury sustained at the IPL. Umesh Yadav and the promising Navdeep Saini are also part of India's Test squad.
Keep scrolling to read more news
Catch up on all the latest sports news and updates here. Also download the new mid-day Android and iOS apps to get latest updates.
Mid-Day is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel (@mxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx) and stay updated with the latest news
This story has been sourced from a third party syndicated feed, agencies. Mid-day accepts no responsibility or liability for its dependability, trustworthiness, reliability and data of the text. Mid-day management/mid-day.com reserves the sole right to alter, delete or remove (without notice) the content in its absolute discretion for any reason whatsoever



30 ℃
30 ° 29 °
Mumbai , IN
Today’s E-paper
Wednesday, 07 July, 2021
Subscribe Now - Free Trial
Today’s E-paper
Games
Breaking News
Union Ministers Harsh Vardhan, Babul Supriyo resign ahead of Cabinet reshuffle
Dilip Kumar to be accorded state funeral at 5 pm today in Mumbai
Bollywood thespian Dilip Kumar passes away at the age of 98
Union Ministers Harsh Vardhan, Babul Supriyo resign ahead of Cabinet reshuffle
Dilip Kumar to be accorded state funeral at 5 pm today in Mumbai
Bollywood thespian Dilip Kumar passes away at the age of 98
Union Ministers Harsh Vardhan, Babul Supriyo resign ahead of Cabinet reshuffle
Dilip Kumar to be accorded state funeral at 5 pm today in Mumbai
Bollywood thespian Dilip Kumar passes away at the age of 98
We'd like to notify you about the latest updates
Powered by iZooto





Disclaimer:
PadMan slated to release on 9th Feb, is a movie starring Akshay Kumar, Radhika Apte and Sonam Kapoor and is based on the real life PadMan and entrepreneur Arunachalam Muruganantham from Coimbatore. When Arunachalam Muruganantham realized that his wife cannot afford a sanitary pad due to its high cost, he took it on himself to develop low cost, hygienic and effective sanitary pads for women. After facing several hardships and challenges, he finally succeeded in creating a cost effective machine which produces pads for poor and rural woman. This movie claims to depict his unique story - so far so good.
But as a part of the promotions (as important as the movie itself in today’s age) the "extremely creative" marketing team came up with this “PadMan Challenge” where the person has to post a picture of himself/herself holding a sanitary pad on the social media. And looking at the number of big Bollywood celebrities putting up their pictures, this movie is sure to garner a lot of raised eyebrows and the much required publicity.
And why not? After all bad or good, every publicity helps a movie. And in today’s age of unlimited data, smart phones, Netflix, youtube, video piracy, torrents, its actually pretty hard to pull the audience inside the cinema halls. Isnt it ?
But here is where I beg to differ. I am all for promotion of the movie. Of course every new product needs some kind of marketing and awareness and films are no exceptions. There have been some brilliant strategies for marketing in the past for movies like Lagaan, Bahubali, 3 Idiots, Ra. One, etc. The makers of these movies not only promoted the movie, but gave the audience a new kind of dimension, thought and entertainment. In any way, I think the promotion of the movie should be well within the limits of decency and elegance as it has the tremendous power to reach millions of people within a short time.
But unfortunately, the PadMan Challenge does not do any of this. In fact, as a first impression it feels like making a huge drama of an extremely private and sacred process of a woman’s body.
What is the intention behind this challenge?
Is it to create awareness? How can people holding pads create any kind of awareness? Majority of people who use social media are already aware about the process of menstruation. So what can be achieved with the public display of this private process?
Is it to reduce the taboo/shame/prejudices around it? The text in the challenge says, “Yes, that’s me and a Pad in my hand. There is nothing to be ashamed. It's natural! Period.” But by this logic there are a number of other human processes and facts that are natural. No one is ashamed of them. But that doesn’t mean that people will make a public display of it.
Imagine if a pharma company wants to promote their new medicine for curing constipation. Will it create a new challenge when people will post their pictures with their “poop”.
“Yes. That’s me and that’s my poop. Its natural. There is nothing to be ashamed. Period.” Now how would that look?
Or a new contraceptive brand with the tag line. “Yes. That’s me having sex with my wife/husband. Its natural. Period.” Can people really relate to that?
Addressing the taboos and prejudices is an extremely time consuming process. It requires continuous efforts, knowledge, counselling and exposure. Just a movie’s promotional activity cannot reduce century old thoughts and inhibitions. Especially in the conservative, patriarchal Indian, it is extremely tricky to create any kind of awareness. A defiant and "all out there" publicity campaign can create more embarrassment than any kind of awareness.
And it all the more ironical when the celebrities are posting images within the comforts of their homes. Just ask any one of them to go to the chemist and buy the pads themselves (stay free, extra absorb, large size, natural fragrance) – all the people around will be more embarrassed than the buyer. And the chemist will pack in it black carry bag as if it contains RDX. That’s the nature of the prejudice we have.
Personally I myself don’t wrap my pads in black carry bag/newspaper/anything else while purchasing them. But that also doesn’t mean that I will flash the pad every month when I have my periods.
Menstruation is an extremely sensitive subject. Specially in India millions of the rural or uneducated women still don’t have knowledge and access to good quality sanitation. And it’s a proud moment for our country that a man like Muruganantham has done something extraordinary to help women. It would have been much better if the producers had taken up an initiative to educate and distribute pads amongst the rural women lacking the access. It would also have been a better alternative to contribute in several government initiatives already underway.
I felt really happy watching one of the promotional events of the film where three powerful men – Akshay Kumar, director R Balki and Muruganantham himself shared a stage and talked freely about menstruation. This was an extremely powerful and effective moment which can go a long way in changing mindsets. I am also sure that the film will be a great one to watch. And more than the promotion, the film itself can do create a lot of that intended awareness.
So when it has everything going so well, why does it need a PadMan challenge?? It might ruffle some feathers initially, but not many women might connect with it – definitely not the women for whom it is meant. Period.
PS: People can differ with me on this subject. But my period is my own. Pardon me if I don’t want to make it a topic of public discussion.
Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this post are the personal views of the author. They do not necessarily reflect the views of Momspresso.com. Any omissions or errors are the author's and Momspresso does not assume any liability or responsibility for them. Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this post are the personal views of the author. They do not necessarily reflect the views of Momspresso.com. Any omissions or errors are the author's and Momspresso does not assume any liability or responsibility for them.




