

After going through the topic, one might wonder how Cloud-based compliances have a role to play in the success of an organization. Read the upcoming section to understand why Cloud compliances are considered the modern-day success mantra for any organization.
Ensuring Cloud compliances has been a significant challenge for many organizations. The inevitable demand for Cloud compliances rises as soon as a user migrates his critical data and applications to cloud hosting. Earlier, the Cloud Service Providers or CSPs didn’t throw weight on the data security or whether they aligned to industry compliances and regulations. Their main focus centered around offering data storage in the Cloud to the end-users. With the increasing demand for strict data laws across nations, Cloud Service Providers are now offering their Cloud hosting services in line with the latest industry compliances.
Determining Success with Cloud Compliances
1. Well-Defined Understanding of Regulations and Guidelines
A critical aspect of Cloud Computing involves various industry standards and regulations that everyone must adhere to. These regulations can be local, national, or even globally accepted ones. The local and national compliances may be true for a particular nation or group of nations, but the global ones need to be mandatorily followed. With advancements in technologies, CSPs are dealing with Cloud Compliances through expert teams. Such dedicated compliance teams ensure all compliance requirements of a business are met.
From the user’s perspective, he must be well aware of compliance policies and procedures. User’s CSP needs to be consistently compliant with the latest standards and must have all the supporting documents for these compliances and standards.
2. Restricting Access Controls
The absence of improper authentication and privileged access often become the primary source of data breaches taking place within an organization. MFA or Multi-Factor Authentication strategies are often apprehended as complicated and time-consuming. Advanced security mechanisms like MFA can be highly beneficial in avoiding all major security threats. Single Sign-On or SSO is a convenient option to consider but can also elevate hacking chances if the user credentials are compromised or hacked.
The best possible method to reduce any data or credentials breach is to use MFA mechanisms. MFA is a secure process that makes it difficult for cyber-attackers and hackers to intrude into the network. For logging in, there is a secondary authentication source needed apart from the login credentials. With MFA, users can reduce any illegal usage of credentials for getting away with critical information.
3. Classifying the Data and Where it is Stored
Another key aspect of Cloud compliances is understanding where the user data is getting stored. During audits and SLA signing, the users must be aware of where their data is present and what mechanisms are being used for protecting it. Cloud users need to carefully evaluate the CSPs on these parameters and obtain clear documentation regarding data storage. Most of the industry standards compliances and Data Security laws demand that the CSPs host and store data within a nation’s geographic boundaries. ESDS is a wholly indigenous CSP that hosts its valued customers’ data within the Indian geographic boundaries across its best Rated 3 Data Centers in India present at various locations.
Once the user has evaluated his CSP, he must carefully consider what all data needs to be migrated to the Cloud. It is usually recommended that confidential and sensitive data should be available within the internal business network. Private Cloud hosting can be considered an excellent option for serving this purpose as it is stored on-premises and offers value-added Cloud storage benefits.
4. Keep on Encrypting the Data
After the user has done the user’s classification, the next step is to encrypt this data. Whenever critical data is encrypted, it remains secured against all forms of online threats and attacks. Additionally, the encryption of data ensures that it meets various compliance needs of a business organization. Today, almost all leading CSPs offer encryption, and for the user, it is important to understand what form of encryption is being offered. Cloud users must remain aware of the Cloud encryption across all stages- be it in transit or movement stage. Certain standard protocols are followed during the data transit phase, ensuring encrypted communication taking place between users and the Cloud hosting servers.
CSPs tend to establish virtual networks by limiting the internal access with traffic volume flowing between the VMs in a Cloud in a much more encrypted format. Virtual networks also help in eliminating various risks related to data getting hacked.
Concluding Words
With Cloud hosting comes various regulations and compliances that these CSPs need to follow mandatorily. The majority of the Cloud Service Providers now understand that these compliances are offering their services based on these lines. Such compliances ensure the data hosted on the Cloud is secure and safeguarded against all forms of online threats and attacks. ESDS, India’s most-trusted CSP, offers all its best-in-class services through its multiple Cloud hosting platforms that are compliant with various industry standards, regulations, and compliances.
For compliant and secured Cloud Hosting Solutions, get in touch with Team ESDS today!!



Understanding Data Center Security
The concept of Data Center security discusses the practices, policies, security measures along with technologies that are used for ensuring physical and virtual protection of any Data Center facility. Data Centers need to be safeguarded against all forms of insider and outsider threats besides other forms of prominent forms of cybercrimes. They constantly pose threats to a Data Centre’s security infrastructure.
The following are some basic yet commonly used considerations for deciding the effectiveness of a Data Center-
- Physical security of the Data Center infrastructure
- Managing and controlling user access
- Defining security procedures and protocols
The considerations mentioned above might be complex in nature, made of different elements used to define individual Data Center components’ effectiveness. The absence of a multi-layered security environment at a Data Center may compromise the Data Center infrastructure against all forms of persistent threats.
Why is Data Center Security Needed?
Data Center Security is important for any organization that stores critical and vital user information within Data Centers. A robust Data Center security infrastructure ensures hackers and other cybercriminals are kept away from the central repository. A Data Center security solution can be achieved either through Data Centers or a partner.
The absence of Data Center security can possibly invite the following attacks-
- Scanning/Probing- In this form of a Data Center attack, a request is given to multiple port addresses present on an active port with the intent to create damage using the weakness present in the service port.
- Denial of Service (DoS) Attacks-Denial of Service attacks occurs when the system owners are restricted from accessing their network and other critical system resources, resulting in a hostile threat-like situation.
- Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) Attacks- This attack takes place on several systems present in the network, leaving the entire network open to cyber risks.
Access Controls in Data Centers
There are three significant reasons why an access control mechanism is indispensable in any Data Center infrastructure. These reasons include-
- Physical Security- A Data Center’s physical security is clearly guaranteed when selecting the Data Center access controls. The Data Center providers don’t want unrestricted members to access the floor. The physical security of Data Center becomes an ultimate security measure when it combines with the compatibility and compliance of Data Centers.
- Compatibility- In terms of compatibility, using a Cloud-based Access Control mechanism allows the Data Center providers to integrate the existing IT infrastructure with all the physical components present in the Data Center. Cloud-based access control can be combined with intrusion detection alerts, multi-factor authentication, and other enhanced security measures. Usually, the legacy access control systems can be highly ineffective as they don’t assure any form of compatibility.
- Compliances-To ensure the complete security of a Data Center, it is a must that the Data Center provider follows certain protocols required for implementing a system and legal compliances within the Data Centers.
Implementing Physical Security Policy in Data Centers
A Data Center provider needs to ensure that the physical security solutions are accompanied by a detailed physical security policy of a Data Center. Such policies ensure that accessing sensitive information is asked to follow a well-defined operating procedure to mitigate any form of risks like data breaches, cyberattacks, or even damage to the hardware.
Ensuring Digital Security in Data Centers
Intrusion detection and threat prevention mechanisms can notify the system administrators about any form of advanced persistent cyberthreat. The advanced persistent cyber threats are usually performed by hackers, with the clear intent of collecting users’ critical information. Detection of advanced persistent threats within a Data Center demands continuous & real-time monitoring. The network and system log files must be constantly scanned and report an alert in case of any unusual events.
Zero Trust Architecture
Zero Trust Architecture or Zero Trust depicts security concepts and threat model that doesn’t need the assumption that actors, security systems and services functioning within the security perimeter should be trusted. Instead, anything and everything that is being connected to the systems needs to be verified. The Zero Trust architecture has been designed to restrict all forms of security breaches that can hamper Data Centers’ working.
Global Data Center Security Market
As per an online published report, the global Data Center Security Market was valued at $11.67 billion in 2020 and is forecasted to reach $26.61 billion by 2026. During the forecasted period, i.e., 2020-2026, this market is expected to witness a growth CAGR of 14.91%.
Market Growth Drivers
The growth of this market segment can be attributed to the following reasons-
- The increasing data traffic emerging from a large number of devices is driving the growth of Data Centers. To ensure secure connectivity of user-critical data and confidential information also demands localized (within geographic boundaries of a country) Data Centers.
- A tech company estimates that there has been a significant growth registered in the global Cloud Data Center traffic, rising from 6.0 ZB (in 2016) to 20.6 ZB (in 2021).
- There has been significant growth in the overall number of cyberattacks and data breaches, causing substantial monetary and non-monetary losses to business organizations. This has created an increased demand for data localization, focusing on hosting user data within the Data Center provider’s same geographic boundaries.
Wrapping Up
The security of the Data Center must be considered seriously. Most organizations today are now migrating their critical applications and data to a Cloud Computing infrastructure. This migration to Cloud infrastructure from the traditional, legacy systems can make the Data Centers a soft target for cyberattackers.
Business organizations must carefully compare their real practices against the defined best practices and accordingly make adjustments to ensure complete Data Center security. For any enterprise, a breach in their Data Center is no less than a nightmare, and this is where Data Center providers like ESDS complete security of the data hosted across its Data Center locations. ESDS deploys a 7-layer Security Infrastructure for ensuring advanced, and best-in-class Managed Security.



Digital Technologies are creating an unprecedented disruption across the banking sector. Digital technologies have radically transformed the way industry operates accelerating the shift to automation. The technological advancements are enabling the banks to meet the customer expectations delivering enhanced services. Digital technologies have unleashed the potential of the banking industry to enable 24×7 online access to the services.
Evolution of Digital Banking in India
In the late 1980s, the need for computerization was recognized in the Indian BFSI sector to deliver exuberant customer service. To address the introduction of computerization in the BFSI sector, the Reserve Bank of India set up a committee in 1988.
The banking industry transformed drastically from computerized records to digital banking. Post computerization, banks adopted core banking solutions to deliver service excellence. With core banking solutions there was a transition from branch banking to bank banking. Core banking solutions enabled banks to offer customer convenience through “Anywhere and Anytime Banking.”
The rising competition between private and foreign banks compelled the financial institutions to leverage digital services to stay competitive.
In April 2016, the Indian government launched the UPI system ensuring easy money transfer to and from banks. The dawn of the UPI system introduced Mobile banking in India that kicked up a digital revolution. Before 2016, mobile banking was offered only to account holders. In the present scenario, UPI made it easier to open an account and make transactions via a mobile phone.
For security reasons the government initiated the process to link the Aadhaar number with bank accounts to ensure the person who owns the account can only access it. Today, digital banking has made it convenient to create and access a bank account eliminating the need to visit the bank branch.
The introduction of UPI and BHIM by the National Payments Corporation of India laid the foundation of innovation in the domain of Payment systems.
Prioritizing customer needs to ensure a fast, accurate, and quality banking experience, the Indian BFSI industry is leveraging digital technologies to ensure an exuberant customer experience. Integrating digital technologies in the BFSI industry implemented electronic payments system, Time Gross Settlement, Cheque Truncation System, Mobile banking system, and internet banking.
What is the Role of Digitalization in Banking?
Digitalization has brought a great transformation in the BFSI sector. With Digital Banking Solutions, there has been a transition from manual to automation in the banking industry. The transition to digital banking services has minimized the errors caused due to manual intervention.
1. Enhanced Customer Experience:
The Digital Banking Solutions have enabled the banks to deliver an Omnichannel banking experience facilitating customer-centric services. Digitalization in banks offered analytical insights enabling products or services to be tailored to users based on their preferences, behavior, choice, and financial health.
2. Grab New Prospects/ Customers:
Consumers are migrating from traditional banking to online banking for convenience in accessing transactions and services. With the growth in digital banking customers, financial institutions have witnessed an increase in the number of customers.
3. Enhanced Process Efficiency:
Integrating the advanced technology solutions with the banking solutions, banks aim to improve the efficiency of the manual processes. Implementing the digital processes, banks have reduced the errors due to human intervention delivering an exuberant banking experience to its customers.
4. Cost Reduction:
Digital payments and cashless transactions have enabled banks to save infrastructure costs. With automated banking, the operating cost of the banks has dropped enabling them to charge low service charges delivering high-interest rates.
5. Insightful Decisions Based on Data:
The digitalization of banks gave rise to huge volumes of information being generated, where data plays a crucial role in dynamic decision-making. With advanced technology solutions, banks have started using customer databases to enhance their decision-making.
How is Digitalization Delivering Omnichannel Banking experience?
In the present scenario, consumers expect banks to deliver Omnichannel experiences. With Digital Transformation, financial institutions are delivering seamless banking experiences to their customers on all mediums, devices, time, and places. Omnichannel banking offers the customers to migrate between the channels without fragmenting their journey through digital mediums. An Omnichannel platform enables real-time data synchronization, flexible banking experience, and convenience to its customers.
According to a survey, the percentage of customers using digital banking is increasing every year but some customers are likely to go with the face-to-face services at the branch.
What are the Benefits of the Omnichannel Banking Platform?
- Quick Problem Resolution: The digital platforms enable the issues to be raised and resolved quickly through online interactions. Omnichannel banking is more efficient and quick as compared to face-to-face banking in a branch.
- Reduce Support Costs: Online tools like chatbots resolve simple and straightforward customer queries enabling the advisors to be more focused on complex inquiries.
- Personalized Experience: A single banking approach to all the customers is outdated in this digital era. The omnichannel platform offers more flexibility with digital services ensuring the
- Customer Loyalty: Quick response and improved tailored experience deliver enhanced customer satisfaction enabling customer loyalty. Customers experiencing exuberant services will be loyal customers.
Wrap UP
Digitalization has transformed the BFSI sector driving the transition from manual to automation. With digital technologies, banks and financial institutions are delivering a seamless banking experience to their customers.
The Dx enablers like ESDS-the Digital Transformation Catalyst offer Digital Banking Solutions delivering an Omni-channel banking experience.
- Embracing Change – How Banks are Adopting Digital Innovation - April 19, 2021
- How the Indian Education Sector is Embracing Cloud Computing - November 13, 2020
- Top 4 Security Threats to Disrupt Your Online Presence - August 27, 2020



