

Table of Contents
- 1 What makes someone leave a website?
- 2 Stop Bragging, Solutions Please?
- 3 Have you heard about Astra Theme Before?3.1 10 Features of Astra WordPress Theme that can blow your mind3.1.1 1. Unmatched Performance3.1.2 2. Great design options3.1.3 3. Site Layouts3.1.4 4. Typography3.1.5 5. Colours and Background3.1.6 6. Blog Layouts3.1.7 7. Global Designing Options3.1.8 8. WooCommerce Ready (Module)3.1.9 9. Integration and Support3.1.10 10. Extend more with Free Astra Plugins
- 4 How to Install Astra Theme Free Version
- 5 Astra Pro Theme – Pricing Options
- 6 Target Audience? Who can benefit from Astra Theme
- 7 Meet and Greet the Brainstorm Force team! (The Team behind Astra Theme)
What makes someone leave a website?
Ever wondered why do we see an unusual fall in our website traffic? It’s because we are not able to retain our visitors for a long period of time. Why? The only rigid reason behind this is that your website is boring! Yes.
Bad themes, dull and boring content brings out the worst from your website, spoiling the overall look and rating of your platform. With the growing significance of online business, keeping our website’s on track is crucial.
Such extreme levels of saturation can make new and existing business owners & entrepreneurs evasive about investing their efforts into this space. While such concerns are valid, there are ways to make our e-commerce website stand out, gain new audience and grow at a sustainable rate.
I have had the best experience with Astra Theme and I can’t hold this back anymore and keen to share it with you.
Stop Bragging, Solutions Please?
Most of the well-designed websites or pages we have come across are based on some great web design principles that eventually result in useful, beautiful products that give consumers a deep level of satisfaction and ultimate experience when used.
With WordPress in hand, life was sorted for us but what if we are getting much more than this? Here’s when Astra WordPress Theme came into the picture to take us out of this mess. With the extremely lightweight and customizable theme’s keeps our performance and business going up all the time.
Have you heard about Astra Theme Before?
If not, then I am having immense pleasure in presenting towards you Astra WordPress Theme which can bring value to your business through your website. Astra theme is a free WordPress theme which can give you the best website experience you were looking for since so long.
With Pre-built elements, you can just drag and create masterpieces, I mean master pages for your website. And what next you want, if I say Astra WordPress Theme works completely according to your mood swings, oops I mean, moods.
You can easily customize the layout, background, patterns, content and all those features which can give your website that extra out of the box look. The super speedy performance brings a lot more value to this bunch, providing unmatched performance. I bet it!
Here is how our blog speed performance improved after I started using Astra Theme (Picture below)
Customer: Give me one reason to try Astra Theme
Astra Theme Team: We can give you 10
Astra Theme Team: We can give you 10
10 Features of Astra WordPress Theme that can blow your mind
1. Unmatched Performance
And Brian Tracy once said, the true measure of the value of any business is performance. Performance is mandatory when it comes to doing business online and as we all know, performance is directly proportional to speed, so here’s when Astra Theme has given me an extremely lightweight and fully optimizable theme for my website.
2. Great design options
I was wondering if I could put pink setting with blue spots in the background and put up navigation elements with geometric shapes framing components into different structures and along with that, customer reviews highlighted in purple and movable items in different contrast.
Confused? Even I was when Astra Theme team came to my rescue and listened to my demands patiently and all they said is – Done Madam! Astra Theme has provided a wide range of layouts for my work which are easily customizable. Font, Colour, Header, Footer, Typography – All according to you
3. Site Layouts
A website layout is a pattern or framework that defines a website structure. It has the role of structuring the information present on a site both for the website’s owner and for users. Boxed, Full Width, Padded, Fluid Layout, you name it and they have it. Margins and paddings can be managed and adjusted easily across all the elements and override the default space settings.
4. Typography
Communication plays a vital role in design. It’s essential to establish a clear connection between the website and user and to help your users accomplish their goals. When we talk about communication in a web design context, we usually mean text.
Typography plays a vital role in this process. Font gives a unique touch to the text and Astra Theme gives you as many as 700+ Google fonts and also you can enjoy free Custom Font Plugins which means you can import and use your own font too.
5. Colours and Background
Psychologists have revealed that people are susceptible on a subconscious level to colour impressions and that over 60% of acceptance or rejection of a website is tied to this very fact. Great combination of colour and background can impress your audience and hence bring you business
6. Blog Layouts
Blogs are written with commitment but what if they are not able to reach their target audience and readers. It will not be of any use, then. Astra Theme provides Blog Layouts to highlight your blogs making them outshine and reach the right audience.
7. Global Designing Options
Astra helped me in selecting the right layout and design according to that will be apt for my line of business. Variety of options are available to select from a flexible range of layout for Header and Footer, Logos, Content. These can be easily deployed and managed and controlled according to your work.
8. WooCommerce Ready (Module)
It’ time you woo your customers because Astra Theme is all ready with its WooCommerce module which allows us to display our products in a grid layout which can be customized easily. If accommodating unlimited products on a single page give you nightmares, just like me then Astra Theme is here to fit all that in just one page with infinite loading facility that loads products when the users scroll down.
9. Integration and Support
Seamless integration at the cost of your next meal is such a wonderful idea. Astra Theme integrated seamlessly with my existing software to give me and my team a better user experience and support which is just a call away. When Video Tutorials and 24/7 Support is available, you can never go wrong in choosing the right partner which is the Astra Theme Team.
10. Extend more with Free Astra Plugins
You can even make imported Astra site more beautiful with the following list of available Free WordPress Plugins
- Import / Export Customizer Settings
- Astra Customizer Reset
- Customizer Search
- Astra Bulk Edit
- Astra Widgets
- Settings
- Custom Fonts
- Custom Typekit Fonts
- Sidebar Manager
- Ultimate Addons for Gutenberg
How to Install Astra Theme Free Version
Just like any Free WordPress Theme, you can search for the Astra Free theme under WordPress.org repository.
Once you find the Astra WordPress theme, click on install and then activate.
After that you can import any of the prebuilt Astra starter sites of your liking by using the install importer plugin.
Now you need select the Astra Starter sites either with Elementor, Beaver or Gluetenberg Page Builder templates.
If you have purchased the Astra Pro Plugin (Upgrade option for Free theme), you can install this add on plugin and will find this screen for activation and Astra Pro Modules.
Astra Pro Theme – Pricing Options
Attractive themes at such attractive prices, I swear!
If you just want to go for Yearly payment option, here is the pricing options in a nutshell –
And, if you can stretch a bit higher, the lifetime option can be great value for the money, I bet. Here is the snapshot of how it looks like –
You can go for an annual plan to delve deeper into this or if you are too happy with the reviews, give it a thumbs-up to the team and go for a lifetime subscription or if you only trust your inner self, then I would suggest going for the Astra theme free version.
If you ask my personal experience, I initially went for the free version but I was too impressed by their work and ended up purchasing the Annual Pack of an entire agency bundle. Astra Theme comes with 14days No Risk Money Back Guarantee but I, guarantee you this that just give one chance to Brainstorm Force team and you will never give a second thought of not choosing them again.
Target Audience? Who can benefit from Astra Theme
Expansion and growth are the two scale factors required by all large scale, SMB’s and small scale businesses to make their product and services more available to the end customers and with online business growing every day, making a compromise over how your website, where your products are displayed to the global audience, will look, shouldn’t be a matter of second thought.
So no prescribed target audience but anyone who wants to bring out the best from their services and want to reach beyond the locality customers should give it a try.
Meet and Greet the Brainstorm Force team! (The Team behind Astra Theme)
Where do they get such innovative ideas from? It’s a young and enthusiastic team of passionate developers, designers, writers, marketers, artists and creatives focusing on just making our life more thematic and beautiful, just like their work.
9 years in business and they are growing rapidly with their customer base expanding annually and has received 5500 five star ratings. A team of 45 members comes with a bunch of a whole new world. Astra WordPress Theme is one of the best WordPress products that has been created and developed by this awesome team.
Final Thoughts
Who better verdict than the end customers itself. Heres some more Proof!
Lastly, I would like to conclude by saying your website is your identity so why to spoil it just to save a few bucks! Go at least grab the Astra Theme free version guys and I’m sure you will be ready to pay that dollar soon!
Great design defines your commitments – So download the Astra Theme Free Version today!



Surrounding the digital world are more than 24,000 free plugins for WordPress. However, making way for the best one is going to be that difficult, mostly for the startup bloggers. Well, do you already have your ideal blog idea ready? Yes, you might have a basic version of a blog, but what you lack the most happens to be various functionalities. Unless you are able to code it, you have no clue on ways to improve your blog. So, without wasting time, it is mandatory to head for multiple plugins available lately. Yes, you won’t be able to test all 24,000+ options because it is insane. But, listed below are some of the most essential WordPress plugins, which you can try going for.
Table of Contents
- 1 List of 9 most essential WordPress Plugins
List of 9 most essential WordPress Plugins
1. Contact form 7
Happens to be one of the most promising WordPress Plugin, Contact form 7 can be well used on blogs and even on company’s website. If you are currently eyeing for a simple contact form, you have come to the right place. It is perfect for covering your needs well. Through this simple plugin tool, you get the opportunity to create even some of the most complicated form. Set for the fields which you only need to.
2. Jetpack
If you already have a self-hosted WordPress, Jetpack is here to supercharge it soon. It comes with amazing cloud power, as expected from the WordPress cycle. To start with it, you need to download the tool and then go to the plugin installation. Once you are done with the installation procedure, you are about to get hands on some of the delightful packages lately.
3. Yoast SEO
There are some times when you might want your blog to be visible on the Internet and also properly described in the Google. During such instances, Yoast SEO is a must-have option to consider. Get to install this plugin tool and start using some of the best practices for the website. Good SEO helps in bringing results with promising and long-term strategy. Well, this isn’t going to take place once.
4. Akismet
Mostly described as hosted web service, Akismet is used for saving you time by just detecting comment automatically and also track backing spam. It will be hosted on your server and will give access to the source through plugins and API. For using Akismet, you have to sign up first. Well, there are free versions available too for the novices to try it out first, before registering for the other versions.
5. Disabled Comments
Some comments are rather disheartening and can degrade your moral confidence any day. So, it is better to disable comments. If you want to take this action, then you have separate plugins for that. Disable Comments is one such tool to consider, which is rather easy to use. It is also going to work on the company’s website, where you need not have to worry about writing comments.
6. W3 Total Cache
Thanks to W3 Total Cache, you will be able to improve the user experience of a site by just increasing the current server performance. It helps in reducing your current downloading times and providing some of the best transparent versions of content delivery network or CDN based integration.
7. Gravatar Cache
There is one simple problem associated with Gravatars and that is related to its slow loading speed. Each page comprises of comments, making one call per comment to the server sector. Some calls might take around 100ms with a page of hundreds of comments. And that can lead to the major slowdown. Sometimes, a page might load within 20 seconds or more. With the help of Gravatar Cache plugin, you can solve this issue by caching Gravatars with the cron job of WordPress and even catching gravatars on the present comment submission. Try to maintain a single copy of default Gravatar other than downloading it all the time for those email addresses without any Gravatar use for it.
8. Disqus Comment System
If a standard comment is not your cup of tea or it comes with a whole lot of spam on a blog, it is always important to install Disqus Comment System. Here, you are asked to create an account in the current system, but this is not going to be a problem. If you check on the advantages of the plugin, you can easily understand the importance it holds for sure.
9. SI Captcha
Through this SI Captcha, you get the chance to add some of the anti-spam methodologies to the WordPress forms, designed for lost password, login, comments and registration, to name a new. For posting comments or for registering, the users might have to type a code as shown in the image. This will help in preventing spam from some of the automated bots. This is a perfect idea to add security and also to work great with the Akismet. Moreover, to make this plugin rather useful, it is known to be BuddyPress, WPMU and fully WP compatible.
Install these tools right away:
The reliable and trained WordPress developer will always try to improve the working abilities by taking help of the WordPress plugins right now. There are two simple ways to install the tools of your choice. The first option is to find a plugin from WordPress repository and then download it. After that, visit the Plugin section and then add new and click on the Upload Plugin option. The steps are rather easier and suitable for anyone’s use for the first time.
Author bio
Brandon Graves is a highly recognized WordPress developer, work for a html to wordpress conversion services in the USA. He has a great passion to make the WordPress Geeks aware about the latest happenings in the WordPress world. If you want to receive quick updates from him, follow him on Facebook.



