


Got my car damped thanks to Ajay and PZ for their services


@Bxxxxe - Is the Dynamat Xtreme? How much - for the damping, and for the work?


That is not Dynamat extreme..I think it is the noise kill. That is the reason he is thanking Ajay.


Yup its noisekill, didnt have the budget for Dynamat though someone said you can import dynamat ext for around 8k on shopyourworld ?


I'm currently on the process of finalizing the equipments and installer for my ICE project. I have tried many installers in chennai before, but I wasn't too happy with the final outcome. I see there has been many positive reviews on this thread and hence want to approach saravana from PZ. I will call him sometime later this week, but can any of you who had experience here before suggest me for the following
 

 - Does he sell all brands/equipments? I have narrowed down to infinity components for the front and co-axials for the rear fill. The car in question is VW vento.

 - Does he sell HU's too, I have finalized on the pioneer AVH P3350BT HU. 

 - Does he sell only with B&W?

 - I'm little confused on the amp part. I heard good feedback about Auditor, but want to check your recommendations too. I'm reading about some special price for members, can I avail it too? Excuse me, if I cannot.
 

Thanks in advance for your inputs, and do let me know if I need to quote someone over here to start the conversation with him. Any other suggestions and inputs are also most welcome.


^ You can check with the member rahulkool who got infinity components for his palio from PZ. He doesn't stock many brands, so based on your preference he would make the purchases from GP road etc and do the install. I guess there would be a certain markup but not sure since previously I bought the items and got it installed over there. 
 

Not sure about B/W you can ask and check. 
 

I think he deals with auditor products so if you have finalized on components you might be able to get him to install it and demo it before you decide.


Thank you Bottle and Prithvi for your messages. I got in touch with Saravana and discussed my requirements with him. Only issue is, my budget has just gone for a toss after discussing the equipment list with him. Following is what was recommended
 

HU - Pioneer AVH P3300BT

Front Compos - 6.5 " Morel Maximos

Rear Co-axials - 6" Morel

4 Channel Amp - Focal 4 Channel Amp (2 channels for front compos and other 2 channels driving the sub in bridged mode)

Sub - JL Audio 

Wiring Kit - Audison
 

My priority was good SQ. I'm yet to finalize the list, and will be doing so in a day or two, Meanwhile, Can you comment on this and any suggestions please?


^Not sure, am an ICE n00b, would recommend you post in the ask the gurus thread


I did the ICE install for my Punto 90HP last week, at Powerzone. 
 

Details of the install are available in this thread - 
 http://www.team-bhp.com/forum/sound-...raris-ice.html
 

Must say - I'm 100% satisfied with the work carried out. When i went to the shop the first time - I only had some basic knowledge about ICE based on what I read on the forum. Saravana listened to my opinions, let me hear few installs, suggested the products and did a fantastic install. Today - we had another tuning session (As the sound signature became sweeter once the initial run-in had been done) and I'm just loving the end result - every note blends beautifully!


Got some very basic ICE upgrades done on my Swift ZDI at PZ. 
 

I added the following from my previous cars (Manza had a all Blau set up) to the Swift ZDI

a) Blau Velocity VC542 components replacing the stock

b) Blau Velocity va 575 amps 

c) JBL 12" sub 

d) Head lamp upgrade: 100/90 Hella with relays

e) LED cabin lighting including the foot wells and below the front seats. 

f) Damping of both the front doors
 

Since the HU (Nippon) did not have pre-outs, Saravana installed a high to low converter with remote poweron, used all new wires. He also replaced the sub enclosure with a new one as the old one was crappy. As I generally listen to a movie songs, pop, mild carnatic, the tuning has been done to be have a good balance of bass, highs and mids. The sound quality has improved a lot over stock set up. 
 

However one thing that came out was the low quality of speaker and comps that came as OE. 
 

Hats off to Saravana for a very clean install


Off late, I feel that PZ has become too expensive to visit. I was charged Rs. 2200 (I finally paid Rs. 2000) for replacing the power cable to the Amp located in the boot. I really don't know if this price is justified. They also retained the old cable which was damaged by rats but, still it was good enough in length to suit for hatchbacks. I don't know if PZ started to exploit the customers since they are getting a lot of cars nowadays. I remember they quoted Rs. 4800 for damping the front doors in my car. I may avoid visiting PZ from now on. Not as confidence inspiring and started to feel that I am being exploited.


^^ I got a clarification call from Saravana this Monday. He explained me the charges in detail. The wiring cable is of premium quality and costs Rs. 1700 with the fuse. And that he charged Rs. 500 towards the labor. Also, for the damping, he quoted Rs. 4200 (with material and labor) for the front 2 doors for Linea. He clarified me that he never over charges or use inferior quality materials. He also clarified me that he never re-use cables with any other cars and offered me send back the old cable to my home (which I denied). 
 

I never had any issues with the quality of work done at PZ. I only had some apprehensions on the pricing and they have now clarified me on this.


Guys, 

I am looking to upgrade ICE for my XUV W8, any members got experience on the Powerzone ? Or any reliable Experts for the XUV in chennai ?


Go to Tenny's place in Kodambaakam. It's called Metal Effects. I've got more than 6 cars installed there. He's good and gives your car attention no matter what budget or work you want done.


Thanks. I already have an Jbl amp(removed from my old car) and only need to install good quality   speakers. No sub as i have a small budget.




Is this guy Saravana Prabhu still on the same number that has been mentioned in the first page of this forum? I got an ICE done by him on my VW Polo 5 years ago & now it's gone totally bad. The speaker is terrible and thought of getting it mended from him as he did the original job. But while trying to reach him on phone, he's not responding; there's no point going all the way going from my home to his shop without knowing if he's in or not. Anyone who got any recent installations from him please let me know if he's got a new number.


Yes he is on the same number... call him on Monday. As he is busy till tomorrow in the AV Expo


Just wanted to warn the fellow BHP-ians about the bad experience I had with Power Zone Saravana. These were some of the irreversible damages I had to suffer on my car. It clearly shows the lever of care one might expect from him. His remorseless attitude was more hurting than the damages inflicted by him. I wasn't happy with the quality of the install either - I faced pods coming loose, rattles and squeaks started surfaced from the components, which he never managed to fix them permanently. If you're adept with ICE, I would suggest you better avoid Power Zone as one may find his attitude too much to deal with.


I recently got my ICE installed with Power Zone and he did a splendid Job.
 

He usually employs pods for tweeters and midranges, and I wanted A-Pillar mold, which I have never seen him do. But, boy was I in for a surprise, he did an amazing job with the Audiofrog GB25's and GB10 pair. The A-pillar mold was so good, so perfectly in sync with the Interiors that you can call them OE.
 

Really an exemplary work done by Power Zone and Team, as they say Experience Talks!!
 

A very Happy Customer!! A sweet Sounding Ride!!
 

I don't have much pictures with me, just 3. I am posting them now, will post few more once I click




Have any of you noticed over-filling of nitrogen due to wrong calibration? Here is the case in point:
 

Car 1 - my FIL's brand new i10 Kappa2. We empty the tyres and fill the car up to 33 PSI with nitrogen with the IOC pump in Kottivakkam. The car, which was pretty smooth until then even on bad roads, seemed too bouncy. I check the pressure after about 250 KM of driving in the Malar Hospital pump (ordinary, not Nitrogen) - and the pressure was 37 or so! The car was back to its usual self after correcting the pressure.
 

Car 2 - My Getz CRDi. This car has been on Nitrogen diet for a long time. Owing to its low profile tires on 15" rims, the ride was always bad. Or so I thought. I usually fill 30 PSI of Nitrogen at the IOC pump in Adyar (near Aavin circle / ICICI bank) - I checked today at the same Malar Hospital pump, and surprise - it was 33 PSI. Brought it back down to 30, and the car feels better.
 

I have always thought that Nitrogen filling will be better calibrated, but looks not - I will check the pressure again at a Shell to see if it is close to 30, or if the Malar pump is at fault. But gut feel / vehicle's behavior says the Malar pump is more right than wrong.


Shanti petrol bunk near Airport charges 5 per tyre. And the BP bunk just before Shanti also charges 5 per tyre.
 

Any bunks that offer free Nitrogen for Filling fuel near tambaram??
 

I know there is one BP near kelambakkam that does free Nitrogen fill for fuel refill.


Hi Nitrous
 

There are no sure shot ways but then you need to be aware of the vendor from whom you are availing service 

normally the nitrogen gas must be atleast 93% pure and not 99% pure. Second what we fill is dry nitrogen , Third you cannot just top up the ordinary air in the tyre you need to completely deflate and fill up with N2 gas. 
 

Most of the auth service mechs of companies have this facility and this is the most preferred way of filling up. you may top up at other outlets.


Shanti bunk:-
 

I went their to fill nitrogen. The only thing the guy did was to remove nitrogen from 34-32.
 

He asked for 40 rupees. I simply refused and asked him to bring a bill for the same. Told him i was going to go to consumer court for over charging customers.
 

He immediately asked,"please give me something as service charge, "at least". Tipped him 10 bucks.
 

I am guessing there is nothing wrong to ask these folks for a bill if they are ready to charge 40 rupees for 4 tyres fill up.


B.K.Lal Tyre shop opposite Satyam parking in Royapettah has everything related to tyres/rims + N2 filling. (don't know about charges though). I exchanged my alloys + tyres here - so got free N2. (Fully recommended! - for pics, check my cruze thread)


I run tubeless Michelin tyre on factory rims, so always had the problems of some air pressure changes every week.

and make it a point to check air pressure every time i fill gas in the beginning of the week.

I switched over to Nitrous since the bunk i regularly fill got the machine.
 

HP pump near chennai trade center, opposite MIOT hospitals Chennai.
 

They charged my Rs 40 for complete gassing. Only after they started filling i noticed and was told that the new machine had already got spoiled in the rain.
 

So the autostop at the pressure set does not work. The display of the percentage of nitrous does not work.

end of it i got ripped for the money and i dont know whether i run on Nitrous or normal air and whether its fully filled.
 

Its due for refill today, hope iam put to rest.
 

Newer things come into the market more confusion added. Now i feel i am better of this just air.
 

Is it okay if i switch to top ups with regular air? or should  Icompletely deflate and refill with air?



