


Initial release date: 2020



	Developer: Cyanide



	Engine: Unreal Engine



	Publisher: Bigben Interactive



	Genre: Action role-playing game



	Platforms: Play Station 4, Microsoft Windows, Xbox One


To be shown next week


No one interested in this game? Thought the new trailer was dope. Full 2000's metal trailer.


It looks good indeed. Hope its not repetitive like Vampyr.


Looked horrible from the get go.


Open Critic: 56



	 



	Bad as expected.




Lol. It's............



	 



	Death Stranding😅



	Hype.


Very hard to choose between RE2, DMC5 and Sekiro. But top would be Sekiro, what a glorious gaming year this has been.


I know year is not over and there are lot of high profile games coming, but still i want to ask great IVG community about their GOTY so far?



	 



	My GOTY so far is Resident Evil 2 Remake. I already completed this masterpiece 12 times now and got 100% completion.Absolutely loved everything about it. I doubt any upcoming game will beat RE2:R as GOTY contender for me.



	 



	


	 



	Runner-up so far is - A Plague Tale: Innocence. Game was huge surprise for me. I was not expecting it to be this good.



	 



	


	 



	What about you guys?


	Please share with everyone. Thank you


Noob


Nvm


Wateva


Facepalm


Devil May Cry V


For me so far, it's been a tie between



	 



	


	 



	


	 



	and



	 



	


	 



	Loved all three. Rest everything including DMC 5 etc. comes later down the list


Shakiro


Nothing


Pirate caught.lol. I used to do this when i was at school and I used to pirate.😅😜



	 



	 



	 



	Just kidding. Pls take it lightly.


dmc 5


We're only halfway done xD


I haven't played many games this year but so far the ones that surprised me are Outer Wilds and Katana Zero.


Katana zero is definitely my Goty.


What a shite year.


I haven't played any game that released in 2019 
Still cleaning up on last year's games like RDR2, AC Odyssey and God of War.

Big money on Death Stranding tho.


Sekiro for sure !!




Super Mario Maker 2. Constantly being blown away by the creativity on display by the community. This is the ultimate evolution of the biggest gaming IP of all time.


It is objectively better than last year. Unless you are only a fan of big AAA games.


What non-AAA games you speak of other than Katana Zero/Outer Worlds/Spire?


Big whoop. 5 games total and all released close to each other. 



	 





	 



	Exactly. Last couple of months been super dry. Even nothing in August.



	 



	Next stop is in September with Gears 5/Borderlands 3.


Huge lineup of AA games ? Judgement,Mario maker 2,CTR,Fire Emblem, Apex Legends,Samurai Shodown



	Even AAA Lineup has been just as good God of War,MHW vs RE2,DMCV and Sekiro.



	 



	Only comparing similar Time frame. And even if you feel 2018 is better , 2019 hasn't been a shite year by any means.


Its dry if you only play on 1-2 platforms. Fire Emblem just lit up the charts across all three continents.


Also the GOAT Mobile game TEPPEN is HERE


Year with amazing games like dmc,Sekiro,  Re remake nd plague tale n all sh*t?


All of the good ones released from Jan to March. 



	Dry spell throughout now.


Nope. It's been an amazing year so far. We are in August now. We had RE2 Remake in Jan - Legendary game; Devil May Cry 5 in March - an amazing game; Judgement in June - again a legendary game and Fire Emblem Three Houses in July - A legendary game that's so good that you will not even know how much time you're pouring into it.



	 



	This is just the exceptional and legendary category.



	 



	The we go into good games (Not Legendary, but still fun) - We have Ace Combat 7 in January - A very fun flight sim with amazing gameplay and soundtrack; Kingdom Hearts 3 - a good game, but nothing amazing and Division 2 - a lot of people liked this one, but it's not my cup of tea



	 



	And we are only 8 months into the year. AAA games at the end of the year like Death Stranding etc. are still left. Overall, it's been an amazing year so far, just taking AA and AAA games. But one thing you might notice is that almost all are Japanese games. If you were looking for Western Games, this might be a very boring year for you.


West has been busy chasing the GAAS and open world/RPG padding trend.



	 



	



	 



	This is the state of western games. And if you only own a PS4 and only play western games, there's not a single game for you in top 10.


RE2make for me as that's the only 2019 game I've played. Edit: Actually i played Metro Exodus as well but RE2make is still the better game.


How is exodus ?


Good but forgettable.


So now we are in October .



	My GOTY 20119 left only:



	Pokemon Sword/Shield，released in 2019/11/15, on Switch.


DMC5. Forgettable year for gaming.


We've still got death stranding (November 8) to release, and ive heard that jedi fallen order (November 15) could be a GOTY contender too, judging by preview talks. 



	Completed leones story on RE 2 Remake yesterday at a friend's house and that game is lit.


Oh yes I am also playing RE2 and it's a blast. Better than DMC5 for me.


Red Dead Redemption 2 PC..


DMC 5 is my GOTY too, such an amazing game. That ending fight with you know who gave me the goosebumps




Completed RE2 remake 1st run. 2nd run ongoing. Already GOTY for me and probably one of the best games released in last 5 years or so.


Done with Days gone. Have to get back to Automata to finish it.


To be honest i haven't played that much this year but if remakes counts then i'll pick Legend of Zelda : Link's Awakening


Maybe we should do an official Goty thread like Era does. Pick your top 5 games and points go towards each pick. I remember it being a thing back then @Cxxxxn Core


I don't think there are that many active members anymore


Nothing like a good ol fanboy warring to bring people back


Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice




This probably more than anything else. The rampant half assed "development".



	 



	On a different note it's rained continuously for the last 24 hrs here in Goa and it's freaking beautiful


Since earlier thread was archived, here's a new one. Rains in Mumbai Pune region have been f**king BS. Almost all important bridges in Pune are submerged in water. f**k THIS RAIN.


Yup. Most of the bridges are submerged and they will be opening 4 more gates. Aundh Baner is a no go totally.



	 



	All over india heavy rains


Rains have really picked up since July


Don't blame mother nature blame those corrupt BMC and ppl who run BMC.


Well we can't blame BMC for Pune. The dams are overflowing. They had to release the water. Schools closed for tomorrow too.


Dude I might visit Goa on independence day weekend. Is it a good idea to visit then?


It is always safe to not travel in this weather😜. We can be sure at least one or two roads will collapse. There is also the risk of disease.



	 



	On a serious note, If you witnessed the stuff that happened in Kerala last year you will never travel in this weather. The speed at which water fills up in our unplanned roads is astonishing. My dad just got out when the rains started and in 10 mins he was almost stranded in hip deep water. Thank god the rains receded for a few hours in our area  and he was able to return safely.


You know rains have started when there's no electricity for over 8 hours (Noida).


Thanks for information. I have booked a hotel in Calangute already. I won't have a car, planning to use the bike rentals. Also planning for Dudhsagar waterfall. Hopefully will get cabs etc to go there.


Bruh. Never ever rely on cabs in Goa. They'll f**k your wallet dry. Rent a car or something.


Its freaking dark in here as we  speak



	like 6 PM


For the beauty? yes.



	 



	I anticipate crowds that weekend, because I found it hard to find a stay for myself and the rest of the family. If you find a place in South Goa along the Colva-Benaulim-Betalbatim stretch it will be relatively quieter since most of the noisier crowd ends up in North Goa.



	 



	Either way wherever you end up it should be fun. If you have a car when you're here, your life will be sorted. Avoid the cities of Panjim and Margao, the traffic situation because of the poor road condition is horrible. I'd say don't even think about drinking and driving but then you don't drink so there's no problem there


Calangute is one of the dirtiest and most crowded beach in Goa. Head to South Goa. Live peacefully.


This. I recommend palolim. Really clean peaceful beach.


Turtle Beach. And a hut at Cassoi by Ciarans. They have a great romantic setup, quite lights, no loud music policy. Not to mention heavenly food. Most blissful holiday ever.


Cabs might be expensive, but ask your hotel for the rates (they normally have cabbies who they have on standby) and check with some cabbies away from the hotel area. Rates are a free for all so bargain as much as possible. Check the self drive options if you're comfortable driving. The drive towards Dudhsagar is beautiful.


Couple of days back was supposed to head to Panaji but decided to turn back as the road under contruction ahead would be hell to navigate. Also good to drive after quite some time. Enjoy


Loving the rains this time. Rains experienced while sitting at home is lovely.


Better than sitting in the fking office looking at 2 people fighting in an email chain




Dafaq you're in office? Office tough guys are the worst. Unnecessary dick swinging all the time. f**king hate it.


No rains here. Super humid.


Indeed i also used to be all /comfy/ n sheeit in the rains, now from last year my terrace balcony fills up and the water comes in my room when it rains heavily for an hour or so, so i have to go out and throw buckets of rain water out.



	Now i have PTSD from the sound of rains, and possibly toe infection


Very light rains in Pune so its more like "Where's the damn rain?"




Destroy All Humans! Crypto-137 Edition ($399.99 / €399.99 / £349.99)



	 



	


	 



	
		
	



	 



	Destroy All Humans! DNA Collector’s Edition ($149.99 / € 149.99 / £ 139.99)


That Crypto backpack


The cult-classic returns! Terrorize the people of 1950s Earth in the role of the evil alien Crypto-137. Harvest DNA and bring down the US government in the remake of the legendary alien invasion action adventure. Annihilate puny humans using an assortment of alien weaponry and psychic abilities. Reduce their cities to rubble with your flying Saucer!

	 



	
		
	



	 



	


	


	


	 



	 



	Destroy All Humans!, the 2005 cult classic, is coming back with a fresh lick of chrome for PC, PS4 and Xbox One in 2020.


Prepare your defenses, the Invasion will begin on July 28th, 2020! Destroy All Humans will arrive on PC, Play Station 4 and Xbox One.


GOG


Yeah, it's pretty cheap too.



	I always wanted to play it back on the PS2, but somehow couldn't source it.



	 



	Have the demo for this downloaded but yet to touch it though


Releasing tomorrow. Will keep an eye on reviews. It looks kinda fun..


Wait for sale, unless you're a die-hard fan of the original and know what to expect.




Hi everyone!



	 



	My name is Ron, I'm new to the forum 



	 



	I'm looking for some mobile games to play casually in my free time.



	 



	I'm currently playing Clash Royale and it's pretty fun, but am down to try out some other games as well.



	 



	What is your favourite mobile game?


I don't game at all on mobile anymore, but I loved Alto's Adventure. Highly recommended.


Barely play mobile games but these are among favorites: 



	 



	Really Bad Chess



	Alto's Adventure



	Monument Valley



	Rayman



	Kingdom Rush



	Fallout Shelter 



	Roll the Ball



	klocki


mobile legend bang bang.....


8 ball pool


Open TTD


Carmageddon, Last Shelter: Survival, Balls & Balls, Smash Brickz


Plants vs Zombies


I keeping going back to Archero. Really love it


I think Gorogoa's my favourite mobile game. It's a f**king work of genius!



	I also really enjoyed Lara Croft GO.


wow this on mobile ? How does it play


For casual and quick bursts of solo-play:



	- Doodle Jump



	- PACMAN: 256



	- Tadpole Tap



	 



	For multiplayer (on the same phone) awesomeness:



	- Chain Reaction



	 



	Single-player, but may need more time and focus:



	- Monument Valley



	- The Room



	- Florence



	 



	I absolutely loved the concept of Pokemon: GO when it came out. Haven't played it in a while, though.


BBTAN 



	World of goo



	Plague, Inc 



	The room


The only game that I play is Asphalt 8. Old title now, but its still really fun to play on my iPad.



	Also because I dont think PS4 racing games are this fun.


Gorogoa



	Florence 



	Oxenfree



	Kingdom Rush



	Bumper.io 



	Slither.io



	 



	all of then are on pc or console too.


Abzu is pretty good, but I enjoyed Journey more.



	I really want to try Sky on ps4 though.



