


As WD is my preferred brand when it comes to HDD I have shortlisted these drives 



1. WD My Passport Portable External HDD 4TB/5TB (₹7899 at amazon)

2. WD My Book 4TB External HDD (₹6999 at amazon)



I prefer reliability over minor read/write speed advantage. My main usage will be to take backup of my entire photos & videos library which is about 1.5TB as of now and will be adding/updating it from time to time. My current setup includes 1 SATA SSD Boot Drive, 2x 1TB WD Blue & 2TB WD Purple.



I'll place the order as soon as I zero down on one. Kindly help me select one from above or any other model from similar price range.

Thanks.


Passport is powered by USB whereas My Book needs a separate AC adapter. I'd prefer Passport & personally use a 2TB one.


Not sure how as both are just normal HDDs.


If somethings goes wrong then data recovery chance from  My Boo K is more compared to the Passport.


you can open the usb connector board from my book and use it as a normal hdd. My passport comes with USB port soldered ( no standard sata port  ) so less chance of data recovery.


They both are most likely 5400RPM only(as per some user reviews, though I'm not sure).


Thanks.

I've decided to go for My Book only. As I've read somewhere that it has 3.5" HDD compared to 2.5" one on My Passport.


If it has a 7200RPM drive, then it will perform better, otherwise 5400RPM at 2.5" or 3.5" doesn't matter much.


Yes, most probably WD40EFRX ( 5400 RPM NAS Drive ).


Received my WD 4TB drive.

It came with ex FAT file system. Should I leave it at that or format again with NTFS ?



@txxxxxr @oxxxxxxxxt

@wxxxxxxxxxxx9



Thanks.


I prefer NTFS. I ex FAT is required to run on Mac.


Virus maybe? I have seen viruses which hides files/folder. Download trial of a good antivirus & scan it. Scan using Malwarebytes as well.


As per HWMonitor it has WD40EDAZ inside.


I've pasted another 100GB data from my Laptop but when I connected it again to the desktop those 100GB data folder is not showing up. Though the used space of the drive indicates the presence of that 100GB data as well. What could be the issue ?  Please help. 

My laptop is also running Windows 10 & all the drive is NTFS only.


Unlikely as I already have windows defender and I generally take good care of any such risk.


Thanks for replying. 

Though I'm using multiple WD drives since about 10yrs I'm yet to face any single issue. Heard mostly good words about their after sale support that's why I chose them again but still will be curious to know about the issue you faced with them.



-------



I have pasted around 400GB data as of now from my desktop's internal drive. Temperature varies between 25-35 degree.

Before that I've done a full error-scan for the entire drive using HDTune and there wasn't any red blocks which indicates I've received an undamaged drive, hopefully.


Thanks. Formatted with NTFS.


Do a test run by copy pasting ~100GB of data(preferably large files like videos) after formatting to ntfs & keep crystaldiskinfo software open in background to check for temperature. I just experienced very pathetic after sales support by WD & will be creating a thread highlighting it once I hopefully manage to get my refund from the online retailer I bought it from(no thanks to WD btw if it happens).


Not sure then, but worth checking for viruses.


Only difference I could notice is that in my desktop I'm using USB 3.1 (Gen1) port while in my laptop its probably USB 3.0 (Laptop being 5yrs old).




Shouldn't make a difference.




Have you seen this thread:


Looking for a bluetooth headset with external Mic to work on my laptop (windows 10). Something like This. I found some on Amazon by Jabra but there were ridiculously high price. Any suggestions please.




1) What is your budget? (INR or USD)



Ans - 75k INR (max)



2) What size & weight consideration (if any) would you prefer?



Ans - Mainstream; 15" - 16" screen



3) What are the primary tasks you will be performing with this notebook?



Ans - Web browsing, multimedia consumption, gaming



5) Any typical configuration in your mind you're eying for ?



Ans - Ryzen 5 4xxx / i5 10th gen paired with a GTX 1650ti and 8gb ram



4) Are there any brands that you prefer or any you really don't like?



Ans - I don't have brand preference but I don't like the Dell G5 15 SE coz of the way it looks like and the HP Omen 15 coz of the fragile lid.

I'm currently looking at the Legion 5i (i5,1650ti), Predator Helios 300 (i5,1650ti), Idea Pad gaming 3 (r5 4600h,1650ti).



6) Anything else you would like to say?



Ans - Decent build quality, display, cooling n battery (4-5 hrs), ssd n keyboard backlighting is a must, looking to buy in Flipkart BBD sale or Amazon TGIF (unless it's a bad idea)





Thanks in advance.


Web browsing, multimedia consumption, gaming : Please elaborate on what exactly would be multimedia consumption and the games that you would play . You dont generally need a 75K laptop for doing all of this and light gaming unless you are looking for an ultrabook.




That's very disappointing... I'm only interested in compact camera like Sony Cybershot models.. I guess smart phones ruined camera options..


After some Google i may thinking of getting Sony WX220, But i also needed some expert advice choosing the best.. 



Casual photography ,micro shots...


Entry level point and shoot camera market is almost dead. Most likely the ones available in your budget are at least 2-3yrs old cameras and would be priced higher.



Are you sure you want to buy one of these? BTW, WX220 is more than 4yrs old.


So what's the best option to go for ?


Yes, dedicated camera is better in many front. But unfortunately today there are not as many as choices as there was few years before. 

Cheapest camera with manual controls will most likely cost above 15k. I think Nikon B500 is the cheapest you can find right now, if you're interested check if they're giving rechargeable AA batteries. If not you have to shell out even more for that and for quick charger as well.

See if you can get SX620 under 15k.



Entry level DSLR costs about 25k. If there is any offer/deal, you may even get it for about 21-22k.


If you don't like bulky camera, then SX620 is a decent one and you can pick one in your budget from Paytm.

IXUS 285 is okay, but slow lens.


My phone doesn't have good camera. And i'm not willing to buy new phone just because of cam. I believe dedicated Camera is much better than phone.You know ,Phone is a phone.  I don't desperately need of camera. But I like photography but i can't afford DSLR. But i have to start somewhere right..


If you have any camera - dedicated or mobile phone camera, you can use that.

If you don't have one or the one you have isn't good enough for you, you can buy one. Your budget determines what you can buy. If 10-15k is what you can afford and you're in need of a camera, you gotta go with what's available.


Are those better than Sony WX220 ? As per review Sony gives same sharp picture even after full zoom..



Canon Power Shot SX620 HS Review - Conclusion | Photography Blog



Sony Cyber-shot DSC-WX220 Review - Conclusion | Photography Blog


Don't go by just one review and you're comparing two cameras released two years apart. Reviewers generally compare things within the segment/price bracket released in the same year (and their predecessor). In fact, you won't find huge difference in IQ among these cameras. Check sample images online from reviewers, from users (flicker, 500px...).

With SX620 you get lot more features than WX220.


Alright ! I'll check that..




Hi,



As the subject line goes, I am looking for a small size laptop.



Pls suggest some good laptop that is small in size.... May be at 11 inch or 13 inch.  Need to do daily browsing, some office work and little bit of image editing ( not that detailed one).





1) What is your budget? --- 40K





2) What size & weight consideration (if any) would you prefer?


Netbook; 11" - 10” screen or less. max 12" if it comes


3) What are the primary tasks you will be performing with this notebook? --- Browsing, little bit me office, basic image editing.





5) Any typical configuration in your mind you're eying for ? --- Nothing special, bur should run the above task smoothly





4) Are there any brands that you prefer or any you really don't like? ---- NA





6) Anything else you would like to say?


Screen resolution --- 1080p (Full HD)
Battery back up ----  normal (3-4hrs) / extended (5-7hrs) )
Purchase place ---- online or local in Delhi


Don't think those netbooks are worth it. Smallest laptops at that budget might be 14" ones, I doubt there are decent 13.3" ones under 40k. The Asus Vivobook or HP 14 suggested above are good choices.



For normal usage, maybe Apple iPad + KB case can do the job? Surely will cost more & has all disadvantages of being an Apple product but is compact, easy to use & has a great touchscreen enabled display.


OP note interested in iPad as per this.


	

	
		
			
				
					
						
							
						
					
				
			
			
				
					
						Tablet between 15k to 20k
					
				

				Hi guys,  Post discussing here have just bought a S6 Lite.  Now need a tablet less than 20k.  Primary usage - online classes, browsing and light usage.  Kindly suggest.

				
					
						
					
					geek.digit.in


Don't take the eMMC storage base model. Too slow and small storage size.



As @oxxxxxxxxt said, an iPad would serve you better for the usage you stated.


Few choices :



1. https://www.amazon.in/dp/B087D3KCZK/



2. Buy HP 14 Thin & Light 14-inch FHD Laptop (Ryzen 5-3450U/8GB/512GB SSD/Windows 10/MS Office 2019/Vega 8 Graphics/Natural Silver/1.46 kg), 14s-fr0012AU Online at Low Prices in India - Amazon.in



3. https://www.amazon.in/dp/B082P8PS29/





Third one would be my pick. 






How is Microsoft Surface Go 2?


Its worse than iPad. If Win10 isn't a requirement, iPad + KB will serve you much better. Otherwise, get a 14" laptop.


By a good 50k laptop for touch screen u can go with something like airbar





What about android tabs? But mind it they don't last long(neither does 2in1s)


Touchscreen plus portability.  Light weight.



And yes based on Windows 10.


Why are you looking for 2in1 tablet?? Is it for portability or touch screen??   ( Remember Laptops are same at portability(


Please advise on this please.


Chuwi makes great tabs, worth a look on aliexpress.


Do you guys think that the above would be better than Surface Go 2? Actually, I was preferring Surface Go 2 in sense of portability and light weight.


That was a spammer you replied to. He's banned now.


I will clear the confusion.



Guys I wan't a portable device. A 2 in 1 types. Windows 10 is a preference.



That was the reason I was looking for Surface Go 2 (Intel M3 processor variant).



Max budget 60k INR. 



Any other choice according to the above preference?


How much RAM do you want in your device? I mean the 2-in-1.



In fact why not look out for the HP Pavilion x360 series of laptop? They provide the active pen stylus included with the package and price.


Lenovo Ideapad Flex 5 is another device for a better buy .


I think he is considering the likes of detachables  from some chinese companies.

Alldocube, Voyo,Chuwi,Teclast,etc. to name a few.



@OP could also consider, of buying Smartron t.book flex core i5- 7th Gen. well within his budget,but dated hardware.


Your requirements will likely not be met in your budget unless you make some big sacrifices, better to get 14" laptop as suggested earlier.



Or increase the budget for this:

https://www.amazon.in/HP-13-ay0044AU-13-3-inch-Integrated-Graphics/dp/B086LQVR3C/

Amazon.in


Guys I wan't a portable device.  A 2 in 1 types.  Windows 10 is a preference.



That was the reason I was looking for Surface Go 2 (Intel M3 processor variant).



Max budget 60k.  Any other choice according to the above preference?




Brother shifting my mind two these HP n Lenovo one.



Help me decide btw - 




	
		
			Amazon.in
		
	


Or




	
		
			Amazon.in
		
	


Or




	
		
			https://www.amazon.in/dp/B086LQVR3C/ref=cm_sw_r_cp_apa_fabc_dl C_V TsU FbKSJWXAQ
		
	


Usage is normal daily use - browsing and emailing.  Some word, excel or ppt work.  Little bit of youtube video editing. Please suggest according to this.  Thanks.


But at least I can say, touch would be a different experience right? I am ok with the fact that all apps does not support it as of now (you never know what happens in future)



Secondly, I know, i5 would be a safe option for future. But still I think, i3 would be more than enough for me for the work that I need to know.



Confused!


1)Windows is not much optimized for touch(Yes, I know windows 10 has a tab mode and better support for touch) but the apps are not at all made for touch. I have experienced this because i have a windows tablet, which I use for sketching and other drawing hobby.



2)Adobe software does not have good support for touch, because they were not made that way.



3) only by touch screen if you have to teach or make sketches. Also u will be stuck to win 10 afterwards, as for me, the touch screen's drivers are closed source and hence linux does not support it.



and believe me, u will be bored after 30 Minutes of using touch screen, as it has NO gestures or any other thing.



-----------EDIT



One last point, if the screen breaks, then you are boomed. as these screens are very tough to find.



