



Not only him, the entire nation has labeled you all has thief’s. What a shame about the bond scam. Why don’t you talk about it.


Why only the President. Chop the perks which are equally dished out to the PM AND Opposition le as well.


Not only the President, even  we the UNP supporters are critical of some of the doings of the Leaders. The  Party  will see how it has fared  at the  next  elections.




I hope the UNP can point to its own successes, next. The co-sponsoring was a betrayal of the people, done without basic parliamentary approval


The Chinese must be laughing for taking a monkey like Sri Lanka up the wrong tree, because it was China


THANKS to Rajapaksa siblings and the HELP from OUR galant armed forces SL ELIMINATED the ruthless terrorists !! If it was Ranil and UNP we'll be STILL struggling with LTTE and the terrorist MENACE!! YEAH !!


UNHRC No one take them seriously, just ask the Americans !! Yeah!!!


For the Easter Sunday attacks, RW


Domestic mechanism will not be possible with
any government if they could they would have done during the
past 12years since 2009.


Hey UNP Bastards have no right to question the government regarding what happened at UNHRC meeting outcome!! You low life scumbag unpeers betrayed this country for your personal gain!! UNP Douchebags have zero elected MPs and what you think means squat to Lankans!!


How come you come to the stage. Before talking big things, first try to find a member to represent the parliament. And don't forget that you are no longer the opposition leader.




 What? First do for Central Bank case while UNP in power? Useless party in SL.


May be ask Rajitha who may be doing these things.


FOR GODS SAKE NO MORE INVESTIGATIONS, COMMISSIONS AND INQUIRIES.




you all are only creating unnecessary problems, and be sure you all will face a break soon. And Ranil/kiriella/Ravi and a few others will have to give up politics for ever.


Perfect. Don't initiate disciplinary actions against all the sajith faction members since that will force them together. Start with these two and others will fall in line.


Show cause must be called from Ranil Wickramasinghe for having destroyed once a great party.


Discipline is a must.


@Demuni, True, What about party democracy ? Is it alien for them ?


What is accused and who to whom accusing.




When the heat is on, now trying to threaten the new government. Funny the traitors are waking up!!!


What's wrong with dismissing 3,000 public employees. Those bloated public service costs public money and those people don't do anything.


IF YOU ALL COULD DO IT IT'S A GREAT THING. ONLY A MONTH BUT HATE THIS MR TEAM OF JOKERS.


7 people rejected you.  still trying to stay in power.


*7 million people


Valid point. This government is already showing signs of falling. Ratings down. 100,000 labour jobs without any income generation. But let them go. Concentrate on the general election


GOOD TO SEND THIS REGIME HOME. MR ALWAYS TOLD THAT THEY WILL SEND UNP GOVT HOME. SO LETS SHOW MR WHAT THE UNP CAN DO


MS is the biggest betrayer of year 2019.  MS is the most dishonest person among Sri Lankan politicians


Wish you be able to retain your seat in forthcoming election,as a man of Akmeemana,I feel you will loose very badly




You alongwith MY3 have given us a "hopeless future". Do you think any person with a brain will come for any of your events?


Its a good idea, but should not impose other to follow your decision. Every organization has their  own rights to celebrate the International May Day.




All the opposition parties can do what they like with their assistance. They can keep it. Currently the President and the mechanisms are working very well.  The people who are now clamouring to give their assistance only after reconvening parliament are persons who allowed the country be devastated last April with bombs. These are people who robbed the CB and brought in the 19th amendment not to mention that even some of the current parliamentarians voted for it and ONLY ADMIRAL SARATH WEERASEKARA voted against. The opposition parties know that the situation was managed well and now they want to cash in. The previous  government people are those who are clamouring to assist when they could do nothing during their tenure in power and proved themselves to be an inefficient and a useless bunch of politicians. They also know one thing for sure and that is they will be kicked out by the public lock stock and barrel at the next general elections on the 20th of June 2020.


The UNP stalwarts should first get together and Akila Viraj out of Siri Kotha because it now appears that he is the decision maker for the bankrupt party.


Hello UNP don't you know that MR is very clever taking people for rides MR has taken many times for rides over cup of coffee its shame still you haven't learn from your past mistakes


Do we have a constitution that all politicians comply.


Another deal


Good. Dyfunctional, indecisive and flip flop to the end. Unconditional support for the government for COVID they said. Now it is clear what side they are batting for. Shameful. Now 3/4 is likely not 2/3






over maturity of the UNP was the problem to end up in this situation in parliament.


.... and not winning a single seat. What wishful thinking.


Yes I agree. Without having immortal leader who ruined his party and his country. (RW). He tries still hang into power. 50 years destruction by (RW)


With Zero representation, nice!


You want to lead with one paltry seat in parliament?


This statement itself is an obvious fact of their ignorance to lead with one seat when there is another with 45 seats, as now.


hah ha. talk of the century. so you want Ranil and the notorious clan to lead that grand alliance and to head a future govt. hmmm..so innocent hope.


The most mature leader has already ruined the party beyond repairs.


Of course! I can think of Ranil and John A as great leaders!!!!!
Afterall we who said good bye to the party understand this best.


UNP is the only party that can run this country, Sri Lanka is full of poorly educated voters.. they can be easily brainwashed like North Korea,. 

See how perfectly ppl are trying 
To blame smart people.. like RW.
And to praise useless people like MY3.


Yeah, they do have mature, lazy, sleepy leaders in their ranks.




What about Central Bank Bond deals of both previous governments Akila? .


You guys are so desperate that nothing is impossible.


Remember real Sinhalese Men are among Sri Lankan’s ! Not all the time people tolerate your political gimmicks!


SO THERE GOES PLAN NO 1


You have a  deal with the government  Akila why do the government is seeking 2/3 you know that as well


UNP is very slow in decision making.You gave him one month gap to contest Presidential Election if it had been atleast before 4months 
Definitely he would have won.Sajith group felt
You were doing the same mistake in General election also.What they did is correct.


UNP candidates joining SLPP so far 3 from Matara district and you are taking about Sajith shame on you


Those contestants are coming to earn money,it's possible only if in government side,so these Matara  also trying not to be loser in next 5years


Nobody categorically said so!


If no one sought approval from the Admin. Council to make payments, which is a pr-requisite, how come an amount of such magnitude has been spent?


It was all under  regime and all are answerable if there are irregularities.




Why?
They are the people who are going to vote at the Election?
Host the Voters to a Dinner .Not those fat cats who are waiting to harm our country.


Well said. But that is all what they ahve been doing since January 08, 2015!




This what you and your boss was hatching all along and you had to spit out as the boss has fled to Dubai    as his cannot face the truth. See what will happen to all of you. You even will not be able to have a proper meeting without getting bored,


THIS IS THE PLAN TO HELP MR


Ranil and the gang wants to get rid of Sajith from UNP at any cost to the party.


Who will vote for bank robbers and architect. of the destroyer of the UNP?




God forbid!!!




coz he is a GS


Many of the newly appointed PC s are not qualified, some of them have not achieved any thing in the professional field, neither eminent, seems some are politically appointed


Very soon there may be more PCs in the law fraternity than the Police.


You mean PC=PC?


Shall we correct the mistake we did in January 8th 2015.




Premier’s chances of wining the presidential election, Not A Cat In Hells Chance.


We don't need a president AND a Prime Minister in Sri Lanka!


Candidacy of RW, in case of choice, will be another serious defeat of the UNP. As a result, it will take another decade for the UNP to rise up.


Fruit don't fall too far from the tree, like father like son.


Sajith..... only choice.


abolition of executive presidency possible under whom? 'fonseka'


Even a good gentleman must know, when he has to go.


I have a better chance of being the queen of England than RW has of being president. After 26 years if someone doesnt realize this, then they are definilty carrying out a contract for MR and the SLPP. Shame..


RW should contest this time win or lose if he is a real leader, since he's the party leader




Postmortem is good. But had everyone analysis the results correctly? Statements made by certain individuals? It was clear that play to the gallery was not working any more. This is the trend in future world politics. Never forget today's technology.


just shut up. We know your hidden game with 


It is funny. Still he doesn't know actual cause of the heavy defeat. It was you and your robber royal gang who robbed the nation from 1st day of the 


Can you please explain as to how a  became a  on a low rated TV channel after Sajith was nominated as the UNP presidential candidate.


UNP must understand everyone did their best to win the election
but there were two minus points contributed SLPP  to
gain plus marks 1)Easter Bomb Blast 2)1 million 1st time
voters(Younger generation)They do not know   late
President Premedasa even much about Sajith.
But they knew Gota very well.


Ranil has totally failed. so he must not step down because he will never win.


He finds always the reason to defend himself. Damn fellow. Good for nothing.


Even without any contribution from Ranil, votes of the North and East would have anyway come to Sajith in the way it did.Things turned turtle when the Tamil parties jointly laid some demands before the main Presidential candidates.
When TNA declared their support to Sajith, the 
 took advantage and campaigned amongst the Sinhala Buddhist that the NDF had 
given into the Tamil demands.This resulted in the
NDF and Sajith losing Sinhala Buddhist votes.


Not only should he vacate the leadership of the UNP he should leav politics entirely. Sri Lanka will be better off minus Mr. Ranil Wickramasinghe in any form of politics.


You cannot refute the truth. Some the senior ministers only gave lip service and no full support. Even while in power they never worked for the people. During the 12 days of train strike what a action did the government take. They just did not care about the public. This alone is a part of your defeat.


Be Cool Hon. Ranil Wickremasinghe.   doesn't know anything only defeat.




Sajith carries the image of the Father who was a people's man Sajith is focusing on villagers


If it's Sajith God save UNP. These days his horoscope is not favorable.


Country is waiting to kick you fellows out. The UNP will be history...and for a long time to come.


I hope the old men realize that they have no chance to win


Next plan of Ranil is to cling on to power using Sajith. Sajith will be given the presidential candidacy but he will be locked down just like Sirisena. Then Ranil, Mangala, Malik and his circle will continue raping our beloved country.




