



Happy to see none of my class mates.


Looks like he will get the 2/3rd majority!!


Proud to be an old Anandian !


hopefully, the visit would have recharged and revitalized his midget of a brain and his ailing memory where he has conveniently forgotten all the nasties he did between the years 2005 to 2015.


Dear President Gotabaya. Please stop the tuition classes. It is very difficult for our parents to pay extra money for the classes. If we get a good education at the school, why do we need extra tuition classes.
Thanks


Dear President, you look very relaxed.

Perhaps, the nostalgic feelings of your school days may have temporary kept your mind away from the serious administrative matters.


Pride of Ananda..!!




Happiest moment in life?


Concrete !!


Sirisena is busy seeing the unseen world


You mean our President actually had ideas to exchange?


At least can get tourist visa issues settled for Lankans?. As this trip funded by tax payers for.nothing.


SL Prez very happy but Tajik Prez just going with the flow.


Teeth well brushed




Last two years.......not as people expected but not worse as JO interpretation as well


CELEBRATIONS !  CELEBRATIONS !!   CELEBRATIONS !!!


Lovely, a very decent gathering!


We have an economic growth of 2.9%. That is pathetic.


That was the one and only thing has left in this country. Celebration!






How many of you voted for MY3? Enjoy the out come.







Hats off to Kurunegala Teaching Hospital Director  Dr. Sarath Weera Bandara who divulged the information about the rouge doctor.He need to be safeguarded instead of been penalized.


No need to protest ,s


What do these men in robes want there? Are they afraid that they will be sterilized? That might not be so bad.


Whistleblowing needs to be commended, not penalised!


Why does every protest have a buddhist monk


It shows the illiteracy of medical procedures. Cheap politics.







Divided we fall, united we stand


What a pathetic state of affairs


Are from Bengali? Talking about Lions!


It's not like the UNP days when so many people attended Nationalist protests :(
Feel so sad for the kid, though. Hope he finds better company.


Few lions and a little leo also.


Really sad and pitiful !!  Only less than a dozen protesters on a controversial issue, where are the impersonating patriots ?


Only  have entitlement to this land as the true natives ... not any historical indian migrants or any specimens that derived from a consummating Succubus and  Panthera leo.


A nasty coterie of racist intellectually stunted individuals, who are a like virus on our society and body politic . They should be eliminated from our political arena forthwith !! 

Mel .


Every child is born as one single human race.  "One Country One Voice" Great Idea!!


Those who care so much about race difference, dont have the slightests idea of the amount of Tamil blood that flows thru Sinhalese veins and visa versa.
Moreover Buddhism cannot be called a religion but a philosophy or a way of life ..




If you're retired, why are you protesting? Especially when it's an alleged attempt to privatize.


If privatized, those who retied may lose their pension. That's a fair reason to protest when you are old and vulnerable. If you lose pension, its not only the ,money you lose, you lose pretty much everything. Sometimes, even your children may leave you.


Belonging to public means the institutions change hand from one group of crooks o another after every election


they should be protesting not against the privatization as they have now retired. They should fight to ensure they continue to receive their pensions


Selling public asserts [Including Post Offices] is the style of UNP, don't you surprised they may sell even the public toilets next!




Free higher education is NOT a right, it is a privilege. These free loaders must be made to pay for their education. We the hard working tax payers are sick and tired of paying for educating these thugs who go on to merciless money making machines.




Building this across a residential area when there is an alternative is an inhumane act


Good situation for the Buddhist who voted these pigs back..Suffer till death you all


The people protesting are the ones who voted them




It's not a sale stupid, it's an outright gift!!!


These people only afraid that they have to work, because the Indians will not allow to be lazy and idling like under the Sri Lankan port authority.


Be careful, one of these days, all of you will also be SOLD!!


Once the Port is given to the Indians they will make it productive and make every to work for the money that they get. No one will be allowed to idle. This is how the private sector works. Well the Port guys think that they will loose their freedom. Also the Indian Company will not tolerate trade unions.


These I'll educated people believe in free lunches and JVP economics
Will be poor as long as JVP Unions exist




These crises won't happen in overnight.

Department officials have overlooked their responsibilities for many years, resulting these crises.

They have kept silence for all these years and now also turning their back towards innocent Depositors.




SCRAP ALL THE LOTTERIES. MATTER IS CLOSE


This is not the first time that lottery price  was increased. It was increased from Rs 5/= to Rs. 10/= and again to Rs. 20/= but this is the first time picket is carryout against it. Now picketing has become a Joke !


Yeah, people know who is behind all these. Why govt can't increase the price?


ACTUALLY, BUYING LOTTERY IS LIKE OFFICIAL GAMBLING.


Lotteries are not essential and in any case if alcohol and drugs and tobacco are restricted then gambling is the next vice. Also if price increased like cigarettes, those who want will still buy. Why should the agents appointed by previous govt protest unless for politics.




SAPUGASKANDATH ..........  




CBEU has become a political puppet of the MR clan. Why didn't they protest when the CEOs of PB




Did Florence Ninteengale demand for these things ?????


THE MAIN PROBLEM IS THAT, THEY DON'T KNOW WHO THAT MADAM WAS........  SOMETIMES THEY MIGHT ASK " NIGHT-IN JAIL ?"


Oh please, half of you don't do your jobs properly even.




This is an unreasonable demand. Promotions should be based first on merit and not seniority. Most government servants just while away their time and claim to be senior hands in the department. Don't we know them.




Now people know why SL need a Hitler


In Sri Lanka we want everything for nothing. Strike,strike and strike.Yes  everything will improve including the health of the nation abley run by the GMOA' strikes.


Sadly these idiotic people have become politically motivated trade unions scapegoat ... when they realize it's too late


Railway workers are on derisory salaries. It is disgusting that such a brilliant train system is expected to run by extremely poorly paid staff. Please pay them more. The country needs a super train service not more polluting cars


Protest all the way till get your demands MPs getting all their required high class all demands without knowing Nobody's


SRI LANKA will always remain a third world country until we stop giving all these freebies. From education to health care to tax consessions.


Quite the contrary. Sri Lanka is not a "third world" country. The description is a derogatory, condescending, patronising, inaccurate one,invented and sponsored by the bankrupt cold climate countries. The said countries depend on our tea, coconut, rubber, graphite, doctors etc for their existence. India has more gold than all of the EU countries combined. Why are there so many people poor? Its the lack of free education and health care encouraged by the selfish middle classes that keeps India poor. If India stops exporting Tea, Sausage skins, cotton, rice, coal etc to the west, the cold countries will starve. How is the best way to make India and Sri Lanka export tea, for example? To keep their rupees worthless. So that the dollars that countries like India and Sri Lanka get are used by the rich in those countries to yearn for the items sold exclusively by the west-posh cars and perfumes.




They are never happy with what they get. Give them a million a month. Still they'll protest the following day showing artificial limbs.




Coming colors are numbering days for 


sri lankan are enjoying real democracy...no thugs...no forces intervention..




Go meet the ex King. He will grant all your demands!


lol everyone wants pay rise from loss making enterprises


Sri Lanka must be only country where bonus is paid  even if the company is running  at a lost and salaries are met from treasury funds.  What a farce.?




I can see a bottle of water, correct me if i am wrong but doesn't a fast mean no water?


don't think they need food as long as they have their phones




This government make a mess of everything it handles as there are too many cooks who are not cooks. They are crooks.


Not in my backyard please. Why not find a place in Hambantota district?


It could be buried in every Muslim burial ground 
with more depths or other wise in remote areas which has mountains or isolated areas .Low level 
Areas are not so advisable


Well now it is going to be Muslims vs Tamils..


Ok continue with Cremation


Muslims must give their property to bury the covid bodies




Some MPs represent the Tamil Alliance wrongfully exploiting the freedom given by Good Governance. These sort of thing should be stopped at any cost. Otherwise these would lead for provoking other people of the country and these sort of Activities will be decisive in power shift to MR and gang.


Now who's spreading hatred among people to gain votes ?




Blasted communists!!




Please do protest peacefully it’s your rights you must fight against rouge individuals who undermine values of education




Would love to see the same reaction when our housemaids were raped in middle east will you do the same in front of Saudhi embassy. Have you gone and protested in front of Afgan embassy when Bamiyan statues blasted and have you protested against ISIS for killing innocent people. Shame on you.


are you a man ?


Two wrong things are not equal to right.


Suda, they will of course do, provided dollars come from their donor agencies in Western countries.


where were these people when the same was happening in our own country in the north and east for 30 years


why are people and supporters of JO protesting against the Disappearance Bill if citizens of this country are so much against killings


why you pepole did not protest when Muslim shops were burnt in SL


What a shame on these 3 headed donkeys. Who is following these traitors. All crows against to Sinhala Buddhists.  What they expecting doing protest? Sirithunaga shame on you.




Indians will work for a rotty and a mat. They will come and never will return. They will work for lowest salaries and our children will have to go jobless. Enough of this Indian threat !


Totally agree! We should train our people and employ our own. It it is wrong to give Indians our jobs. What is the government going to do when our people are unemployed?


Murder them like they did in 89/90...UNP policy




Looks like An- is scared. He knows what sins he has committed sitting on Ranil’s lap.


Appreciate the effort made by Anura Kumara




abolish the student unions or suspend these students


Photo 6 - Taking a picnic photo


Now they have no where to go, Why should we pay for their destruction.Stop free university education get the parents to pay or teach them their own traditional trades we are short of so many workers for farming, construction, machine operators, politicians, Looking at the pictures you can nebver make them good doctors or engineers even if you teach them for 10 years.They have spent over 600 days doing nothing.




Tell me something they will not protest for? The next one will be , I presume, bring down the prices of hoppers and string hoppers......


NOW I AM GOING TO FORM A " COMMITTEE FOR PROTECTING BOOZERS AND SMOKERS"  AND HAVE A PROTEST IN FRONT OF RAVI'S HOUSE.


I WANT CRIMINALS RIGHTS




In Sri Lanka valuable time is wasted by these losers cleverly manipulated by a political party who will never to power. Majority in country with this primitive mind set. So the fortune telling for future is same bunch of losers in the same place and country gone to dogs




