



how can u blame only Israelis what else they can do when Palestinians attack Israeli behind civilians. Even situation like this any country will take the same step. Look when Israeli step up for seize fire, hamas ready to violate it. So you guys should raise your finger to hamas first.


When Aluthgama was attacked nobody jumped like this, how come?


useless


Late... but good work. Please protect our country from terror israel


Just wasting their breath at a fund raising campaign!


They can handover the petition when they go there for cocktail party later in the evening.


[quote name="ANTON"]WHY CAN'T THEY PROTEST, PCS ATTACK ON INNOCENT PEOPLE.[/quote]




There is a hole in the government proposals- first photo 




Waste of 'ENERGY' !!!




Concessions? To which fragment of JVP?




way to go !!!   excellent


Brilliant JVP. Keep it up. Fight corruption and help the people.




THANK YOU JVP. WE ARE GRATEFUL.




Do they feel sorry only for the dead JVPers? How about those who were killed "by the JVPers?


During the 1980s when I was a small child I can remember us getting letters not to put any lights on and other threats by the JVP. These people are commemorating the very same guy who used to lead that gang if thugs




Bogollogama is hiding . Not to be seen anywhere.


Unheard of character!




top one is top


This is a good thing. Nice 2 C tourists buying them


beauty full.


GOOD EXPOSHER TO OUR CRAFTMEN-TO LAUNCH OUT TO THE REST OF THE WORLD


Lots of talent on show, very creditable works of art.




Unite & won the game.




What that monk doing there?


he took only 3 million bribe...thats quiet low with the current government standards. it should be atleast 30 million+


Monk is protecting out heritage 


Makes me want to take those boats to Australia after seeing these pictures. Our the people out of their minds to votes for them? How does one even comment on these pictures.


Monk should be the example to the budhism. But when monks are with the culprits how people can reform and who will correct these culprits. Where is budhism and monks stand on this?


Any person has the right to be with any criminal. But when a monk is with him, its an attempt to white wash. Religious authorities should investigate why and how a monk behaved in a disgraceful way. When you are clergy, you cannot do as you please. You have to be responsible and set an example to others.


way they are showing up infront of Court after a bail release is a mocking to the judiciary Its shame for us as sri lankans


" who let the dogs out ......."


Off to Kelaniya to see the relics?





Why? 


what is this monk doing?


The guy is walking as a hero and a monk is supporting.


Thick skin to grin to the cameras so proudly. And a bunch of idiots following him!




Haha! That was funny, that lioness must be really hungry.




GOD, dont think you are GOD !! and dont be so negative !


Continue to blast natural rocks that hold the mountains and very soon there will be no Kandy city. We are a nation that never learns. Have we learnt anything since the war ended ?? People who had hope after the war are worse off today economically... Nature does not spare corrupt rulers


Master Sir! When that day will come? (not prosperity but bare living)


Dooms day......Get ready for it :P




MR is a Such a Show Bag all about religion and peace??????????


Good timing just before the PC elections. Religion is also used in a subtle way for political advantage. Can the sins committed be covered by these acts?


by the grace of holy buddah......lets hope for a better sri lanka ......


This shows the goodwill of India towards Srilanka but at the same time budhists must treat other religions with respect.Please follow the teaching of Lord Budha and make this island a paradise.


I wonder if Lord Buddha was alive today, what he would think of these practices of worshiping relics , which would be  to him. The essence of Buddhism is expressed in the four noble truths:  (suffering), Someday (cause for suffering),  (cessation of suffering) and  (path to cessation of suffering). Further he preached three characteristics inherent in everything:  (impermanency),  (conflict and suffering) and  (soullessness or not permanent entity). Since the main teaching of Buddhism revolves around  (suffering) many people think Buddhism as being pessimistic, cynical and is all about suffering, and is an enemy of harmless pleasure. Buddhism is only to gain mental tranquillity and deliverance from physical and mental suffering.


cont: To achieve this, one has to leave the worldly life and become an ascetic.


Nice Indian Airforce Plane !!!




I think this is a trick to catch the real killer... anybody agree?


So are you the one.









Revenge revenge revenge, only locals under kangaroo law, but not internationals.




Sir, get that joker RW out of the way for Sri Lanka to see the sunlight again.


what are the monks doing there


please go and worship mahinda... traitor !


Where is Sajith? hehehe


The man behind pulling out members in support of the regime. You and Sajith have done enough damage. Please leave UNP and never come back.




For Me  is SF


Reporter: When he will be released Sir ? Mmmmmmm........... very sooner or later.




Sad to see so many people waiting to get treatment (perhaps free of charge) while government cronies plunder the share of wealth of these innocent people. High time to open our Eyes Sri Lankans!!






Why along. Where is Sajith. Till he gets deputy leadership he was with you. After he achieved what he wanted he forgot you. You forgot that he is son of late Premadasa.


Playing to the gallery as usual.




AIYO , THOSE WERE FERMENTED TO SERVE COMMON WEALTH LEADERS. THEY LIKE OUR LOCAL STUFF.





that was for CHOGAM...you silly boys




God always looks at innocent devotees than the corrupt


People are mentally down. They look for some sort of solace even from the unseen gods. This is the state of thje country


With a population of this many , no wonder MR makes them believe anything what he says.





Exacty


How pathetic and how vulnerable human mind, which is living in eternal fear who believes in God business. Christians tap this weakness saying if you do not believe - you are going to hell and Islam also infuse fear psychosis to get their flock bigger. Before that Judaism, Black African slaves from Egypt talk about the pie in the sky - promised land and ended up ultimately Palestinian territory changing their skin colour too as Whites. It amazing God business! When will human will become humans?


Please beware when you commenting on other regious issues. We should have a mutual respect on all religions along with their respective cultures.


Good question, but no answer


So did lord Kataragama Appear....? he will not , I doubt it....


Pardon me for saying this, BUT what does this have to do with Buddhism?




lighting fireworks to celebrate the death of a human being, no matter if he was a murderer, is not very buddhist-like


Law of the jungle should not prevail over the rule of law.


Is this  or what? I can not compare to any country.





Good Work Well done. Cant you give the same treatment to political thugs as well.


Good one Mehan.....Please get rid of the political tugs. can name alot....


OK, BURY THAT BASTARD, WHAT ELSE ?


Starting with the TOP THUG


Basically no evidence!!


One who take up weapon will perish with weapon!




Wow,...nice




Low level meeting at a high class hotel.


He went to meet only this low level


When is the meting with the Japanese prime minister?




housemaids, garment workers, plantation workers, farmers etc. get ready to earn dollars for paying the debt while do nothing professionals and politicos enjoy the road in their duty free vehicles.


Do not charge premium charges for those poors who want to reach airport in a VAN quickly. Max charge should be Rs.200.


Very Good job big thank you for prasident & officials those who involved to make it a success. charges are little too high compared to international highways in other countries.


WOW! No second to hi-ways in developed countries!


What is the charge for roller skates...a 8 wheeler without axle? ....LoL


i think you havent been to anywhere else apart form srilanka ha ha ha




How about few railway Gate before this white elephant


All the best


Long overdue. I remember the late Hon. Dudley Senenayake laying the foundation stone in the late 60's. The subsequent Sirima govt. did not take this on, but widened the CMB - Katunayake Rd in time for the Non-Aligned Conference. A much needed artery road connecting the National Airports to the Financial capital.


Just like in the US line each side of the highway with a band of trees of many varieties. This will help absorb some of the emission from cars, create an ecosystem and be aesthetically pleasing. Do not put up electric lines and electric poles but bury them in pipes to hold the electric lines and fiber optic lines.


The govt should have given priority to this expressway than others. it is long due for a long, long time.


This was a long felt need, this should have been done long time ago, when they opened the New Katunayake airport . But its better late than never. At least the first impression when arriving in Sri Lanka would be much better than the former eye sore, of a road with open meat stalls , dirt all over the roads and dirty tea boutiques and dirty buildings on the side of the road. At least now the tourists would be spared that horror.


This is the best project of the Government after finshing the war ...!!!


Greatm was amuch felt need.


Congratulations!.


Fantastic.Great investment for Sri Lanka.


Hmm, looks nice but how does it taste?


PHOTO NO. ONE REMINDS ME THE SCENERIES OF AUSTRIA AND SWITZERLAND.


how about the commissions for MR brothers


Good Stuff .. also please ensure Law & Order


"Better (very) late than never"


More roads means no job and more we owe to china . Next 500 years to pay for the loan or china send in missile


Public will take these seriously, but those who got millions out of these contract must be laughing at our ignorance. This would have been a three lane express way on each side but to accommodate the payment of commission would have been reduced to two lanes each way for example and we are indebted. The more expressways the more commission into the pcokets to buy condos and apartments in Dubai, resorts in Maldives and houses in LA. Thank you


Excellent




This is not the way to beat Tamil Diaspora.




c'mon... its already there in private institutions ...


No cheating .. poor guys..


please do not bring this system to sri lanka...




Sri Lanka = born free & be a burden




Awesome! What a testamant to human ingenuity.




Well Done!


deploy jobless "Environment Police" to be on duty to apprehend pollutants. We taxpayers pay them for nothing but to adorn the streets of Colombo to keep an eye for possible trouble makers for the government only, in the capital city. For that, at a massive expense of our money, CCTV cameras have been installed. So, send these cops where they can contribute.


The people going to  has joint responsibility to keep the place clean and tidy.


wow ! Good Job..............


WELL DONE Girls !!!


Keep city and country clean! only YOU and I can't do it, WE as a WHOLE must participate. For that WE, PUBLIC must give our fullest cooperation.


good job you childrens. god bless you all.this is a responcibility of devotees. for not to dump the rubbish.. if not for this chidrens action , ery soon our enviorenment will vaniss. and there by all our major rivers will be dry off.




YA!! The standard time should be tattooed on all railway employees & including it's ministers FOREHEAD.




