



This is incorrect. There was a recent article published in JAMA (6 Aug 2020) by a Korean team of researchers, indicating that  asymptomatic case still carried just as much of the virus as symptomatic patients—and for nearly as long - Their conclusion quoted below.
"In this cohort study of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection who were isolated in a community treatment center in Cheonan, ROK, the Ct values in asymptomatic patients were similar to those in symptomatic patients. Viral molecular shedding was prolonged. Because transmission by asymptomatic patients with SARS-CoV-2 may be a key factor in community spread, population-based surveillance and isolation of asymptomatic patients may be required."


Then why are pcr negative people flying in from abroad in institutional quarantine for 2 weeks?


We all should do our part to keep us and everyone around us safe, 
And carry on with our lives,


The people of SL is having a notion  and It is  very much sad that after burial of dead body, the virus transmit via sand and water even though no scientific evidence  on these argument. 
as article depicts that alive person is not vulnerable to infectious or transmit , On what basis ,dead body is infectious OR potential of having a potential of transmit virus.

Every community should have empathy towards other community to built nations.






If the Citizens decide to replace one set of Crooks with a bigger set of Crooks, slowly but surely we will loose our Mother Lanka.




Solid article. I remember Justice Nanayakkara had a penchant for english Language which is manifestly clear from a plain reading of the article where the english is flawless and clinical and the substance very appropriate.




Just at least say thanks to the Military for risking their lives so that you can have your life. First they created peace by eradicating ruthless violent group in the north and east and allowed people to live without fear and then they managed to save people from this current deadly virus . So far only the military has done their duties to the country. Most others are just serving the interests of other countries as apparent from the article. Some of these countries whom they admire are full of racism,  dictatorship,  strict surveillance of their people, strict rules, etc.  If those countries are better, not sure why people are queuing up to come to Sri Lanka now.


The only substantiated fact in this whole article is: “The rise of China’s economy and the impressive development of Singapore constitute the most famous validation for authoritarian style rule.”  It is substantiated by two examples; China and Singapore.

This article is gunning the “Sinhalese community”, without giving a reason.

The section: ‘Political economy of the support towards current authoritarianism’ is not substantiated.  It is only fanciful thinking of the authors.

“...there are ample examples for cases where democracies show greater ability to successfully tackle internal as well as external threats.”  Sadly, the authors fail to give one example.  The truth is, there are no examples; politics and indecisiveness in democracies have been used by external threats to penetrate the defences.

“It is only the immaturity of the social rationale ... prompts the preference for authoritarian style rule", is again an unsubstantiated claim by the authors.


I love both these comments. Great!


Due to the peculiarities of the Sri Lankans (undisciplined, greedy, jealous, cowardly, nepotistic, racist and liar), the country will not be able to free itself from the political and economic swamp under a dictatorship or under a democracy. Then it is better to live in a democracy in which human rights are respected.


When politics has plunged the country into constant meaningless debt that benefits the few, the law been bartered with justice manipulated, and the bureaucracy caving into political interference and making disastrous decisions and management amounting to the looting of the economy, to finally see the process of democracy ineffective and ultimately vandalized creating a groundwork for criminality in all forms and giving birth to new forms, and blatant disregard of the law, of  what good has it all accrued for the citizen. The strong stand taken by the President at this juncture is justified and rigid rule in the right direction is of prime importance to prevent the country from been completely vandalized.




Never seen a good article with all the information in one place. Keep up the good work. I believe this kind of rackets and practices first came to public from Slumdog Millionaire movie not from the authorities who are appointed to them. I was surprised to know that there are departments to look at social life. So now comes the problem what exactly is begging and why it is illegal. Because there is also the problem of government officers who does not do their job properly they are receiving other peoples money officially.




Start somewhere. GPS collars are a great start!


If you have a complete dumb nut like Gamini Jayawickrama Perera this is what happens. Man has NO CLUE of the subject. Someone wants to retain baby elephants illegally. Thereafter, it’s easy for them to transport baby elephants to Middle East countries ???    Can someone send this man to a drug test .... he has definitely taken some illegal substance that he doesn't know the left from right.




Can u send me a contact of Pandula Edagama


The April new year around the 14th day of the month predates Lord Buddha's period and it is essentially a Hindu festival the origins of which go far back as the Hindu Vedic period. It is celebrated in Orissa, Bengal, Tamil Nadu and various other states of India. Though majority of the present day Sinhalese are of South Indian origin, the origins of the rest can be traced to Kalinga or the present day Orissa from where prince Vijaya arrived and it is these historic connections that explain accurately the history of New Year celebrations in Sri Lanka.




Thank you for your views Mr.President.We hope you will not stoop to underhand tactics to undermine the BASL like Mr.Alagaratnam who abused his position as the President and his conduct  was a professional misconduct and the Disciplinary action should be taken against him.We all elected him uncontested without any racial discrimination but his action was racially motivated to secure the appointment of a member of his community.. This is totally wrong and unacceptble to the spirit of the legal profession in Sri Lanka.




MR should tend his resignation and save the nation.




When you have crooks like MS as leader of the country with his goons and crooked friends how do you expect the country to prosper.He was behaving like a Saint until the LG elections came and he found to be a 4% man, scheming crafty situations with friends and rivals to keep his power base and hope for a second term. What a joke his little tricks up his sleeve has been discovered. He has no scruples, nor character to be a leaderThe masses know that he lacks knowhow, policies,economics, dependent on his crooked friends on fun and games in politics for survival. He is a master of setting up commissions.




The next best option is to develop a tri-forces cantonment in Maullaitivu if they do not want development there. This is not their crown land.




we know all are human , but not only tamils pepoles, who is responsible  to sri lanka army and sinhala pepoles .sinhala pepoles are also face same things in that time .




Two languages, religions, ethnicity,cultures cannot be mixed together to live in peace. Even in UK, same language, same religion slightly different culture wishes to have more autonomy in Scotland, Wales,Northern Ireland.ln Uk forces they have Scottish, Welsh and Irish battalions. In SL Tamil speaking people have no battalion.The government is always Sinhala, The president is always Sinhala. Let there be a Tamil speaking state and parliament and the main parliament as in Westminster to live peacefully. So far since independence we have politically failed in SL. LET  ATLAST  OPEN OUR EYES AND ESTABLISH SENSIBLE POLITICS INSTEAD OF DILLY DALLYING - Mohan




How much did he pay you for this interview.. Marvin Silva is a joke at least but this guy is one beyond


This interview proves that Singhalese leaders are highly motivated for the war against Tamils more than providing justice to the victims of war crimes because according to Singhalese leaders war crimes against Tamils are justifiable.  It Tamils committed the same war crimes, Singhalese leader would have reacted differently.


Ha Ha then what is your nationality?




ALI BABA and the 40 thiefs . After ALI BABA who will be the leader ? .




If  these Muslims were driven away from the North, they can be resetttled in where they were, as is being done at present.


When the eco system of Rajagiriya marshes were being filled up to give rich people cheap land, no one batted an eyelid. I guess environmental concerns only affect the poor.


If Muslims were displaced from Jaffna, they should be resettled in Jaffna. Not in Wilpattu


did anyone think why these muslims were deported

because they did not agree to fight against us i.e. the Sinhalese
they also suffered in refugee camps for so many years




The Pot bellied crooks. They are all there to fatten themselves. There is also a Jayalalitha clone




KKS, you will see the reality at an election. Till then you day dream. Nothing is permanent. Everything is evolving and revolving. Your hero Ruwan will learn a good lesson




After thrashing the mighty Indians one would have thought that the Pakis would have been gobbled up like . But what a turn of events! What a glorious let-down. Thank you guys for nothing!!!


Im an ardent SLC Fan. You loose some, and then you win some. Well, obviously disappointed, but I will gracefully accept defeat and salute the team for "how they played the Game"




It is time for all SL politicians ( Prez and  PM aside)
To drive there own vehicles when attending Parliament. Those who cannot drive may be paid to hire a driver on official trips only.




This purely racism. Government dont have any other jobs only they can do crating the issues for Muslims. They dont worry about the country they will sell all the asset of the country.




Tell him to write a book and sell it! Is this worth wasting print?




Well said sir. Actually people have failed to elect those who are responsible and suitable for a parliamentary seat. Best example is Chatura, Ranjan, John were elected and a gentlemen like you were outset by the Gampaha people.




There should be sufficient provision  in the laws
for the election commissioner to reject corrupt politicians who submit nominations. i.e. There should be court or Fraud Bureau clearance for this purpose


Of course when fuel prices go up  it is immediate
but go down  then takes  10 months  somebody is making a lot of money  and as usual lying to the public


Only Former Minister Rajitha gave benefits to Sri Lankans through medicine price reduction. The rest all ....


Is there a solar or lunar eclipse before middle of June 2021.Trust you will be able to retain your position during and after the period mentioned.


Another one of those POLITRICS. Buying time for the future.




SL  drugs are available more freely than food.




Excellent article.Remember how the Govt also wanted to give a beer company  govt funds to tide over its difficulties?




One of the reasons I love AKD is his open thinking


Your 30 years of political experience has not in any way contributed positively for this country's progress


Why are we seeing only AKD from JVP in the media? Why are other young candidates from JVP declining to appear in media?


Where was he when this was first brought to the table? Was he sleeping?


MAN WITH TWO TONGUES.

HE WAS THERE WITH THE UNP ALL ALONG.

HE KNEW WHAT WAS GOING ON WITH MCC/SOFA

SEE SOCIAL MEDIA THERE ARE ENOUGH CLIPS TO MAKE HIM GUILTY.

TYPICAL TWO TONGUE SRI LANKAN POLITICIAN

I SINCERELY HOPE THIS MAN WILL BE ELIMINATED IN THIS ELECTION IF PEOPLE ARE WISE


Anura said  regarding MCC when he was with previous government and now say something else. Not a trustworthy man, manipulate everything for his benefit.




