


@mxxxxxxxxxxxs Have you read the books? Try them.


What is worse? To be a broken soul or to break another soul?


The prospect of an early demise is somehow very calming.


@Lxxxxxxxxxxxx Oh. I was about to bring out the wine bottles 🙄


@Mxxxxxxxxxxxxxs Mine would do this in a heart beat


People are so quick to judge, criticise and accuse without knowing all sides of a story. They cannot see beyond their own anger and emotions to understand how the other party must be feeling.





I think too much
Feel too much
Love too much
I am too much
And yet
I am not enough


I have a thought in my head
Burning to be a poem
Yearning for words
That just won't do justice


Do these quotes/advices really help? https://t.co/Pz6ivMeHTk


Smile, because no one really cares.


The best place to get lost is in a crowd of people.


Leave it to Sri Lankans to turn a tragic murder into jokes and memes 🙄


Where do I end and you begin?


So the airshow was a disappointment 🙄


@Yxxxxxxxxxxxd Love language


Reach for the stars with me
The stars that we will never touch
But still
Reach for the stars with me


Whatever the question, whatever the doubt, whatever the suspicion, love is the answer.


Sometimes we do things knowing it will hurt us.


I feel what I want to feel. 
No one can tell me what to feel, when to feel and how to feel. No one can tell me not to feel.
My feelings are my own and no one else has to deal with them.


I no longer live.
I survive.
I exist.
I pull through.
But I no longer live.


If being loved does not heal a broken heart, if it does not change a broken soul, was the love really worth anything at all?


Broken hearts break hearts
Broken souls break souls


Those who awaken the deepest love always leave behind the most deepest scars.


@mxxxxxxxxxxxs Fellow wine lover!! ❤️❤️❤️


I cry
For what could have been
What should have been
For what was found too late
What was lost even before it was found 
For what I can't hold on to
What I can't let go
I cry
For you..


A screaming mind and a silent heart. Recipe for big changes.
#change #infj #thoughts #feelings #poetry


Yes it's a new year, new beginnings for some people. But for others, it's just another day in the calendar. Things are the same as they were yesterday, the day before, and the day before that.


The silent whisper
The unsung song
The colourless dream
Gives life to
The unending story 
The most beautiful symphony
The most colourful wishes
Of a heart
Hiding a love so precious
That its yearnings
Will forever remain hidden..


Oh, how we wish that a place of moment's respite could be a lifelong shelter. But the place of rest must be left behind.


The first rule of truly living - Do the thing you're most afraid of.


A moment..
Heart stopped
Breath silent
Seeing nothing but your eyes
Hearing nothing but your heart beat
When the world fades away
And you fill my universe.. ❤️ https://t.co/0yCLeHyVK6


The most cherished thoughts and feelings are hidden amongst the darkest of emotions.


It's not enough to know your worth. You should be well aware of your weaknesses and toxic traits as well.


How upset these so-called members of the senior management get when they're sent email reminders by a junior staff member on work that they were supposed to do but haven't done. The higher up they are, the more fragile their ego 🙄


What love might have been
If it was given as much as it was received 
If it was received as much as it was given
Oh... What love might have been..


Fight for someone you love, but never fight for someone to love you.


@mxxxxxxxxxxxs Take your own time. It's no one else's business ❤️


Can't figure out whether to get the wine out of my system or my system out of the wine.


@9xxxxxxxxr I go through this with hubby 😅😅😅


I burn....
I burn, I burn, I burn
Then I am ash
Blown away in the wind..


@Dxxxxxxxr It is a true blessing if all of this can be found in one person.


Of all the things to lose faith in, the worst is love. Once you lose faith in love, nothing else makes sense. Nothing else matters.


It is love that we hold on to
The love we give 
The love we get
The love that hurts
And the love that heals
For if we lose faith in love
All else will cease to make sense
All else will become empty and meaningless
For as long as there is love
There is hope


I hope I never lose the amazement I have over beautiful sunrises and sunsets https://t.co/yljqv45zvF


Not sure what all the fuss about Bridgerton is. For me, it's just another love story where the couple ends up together happily ever after. No intrigue, no mystery, nothing to get my mind thinking 🤷‍♀️


@Mxxxxxxxxxxxxxs @exxxxxxxxxxxxxn Why though? Are you implying that only women gossip? Or that gossiping makes men less manly? You do realise that this just demeans women right?


The world only knows what we reveal to it. The untold stories, the hidden pain, the secret longings.. These are what actually make us, us. In the end as we lay on our deathbed, there is no one who knows us better than our own selves. We were alone, all along.


@hxxxxxxxxxxxy I agree with you. She was actually quite selfish. Bonnie called her out on this a few times.


The screaming of the mind is muted at the merest whisper of the heart.
But as soon as the heart is silent, the clamouring mind overwhelms every word that the heart so dearly spoke.


Sometimes the journey is in the waiting, the pausing and the resting.


There are some days that I am extremely determined to be in a bad mood. I will move mountains to stay in my funk.

#infj


@Mxxxxxxx7 She was so much better than Elena


When you unmute yourself on a Teams call coz somone made a joke and the others should hear you laughing 🙄


What you do for them, they will never do for you.


Are we filling in the blanks, or are the blanks filling us?


@mxxxxxxxxxxxs I watched it! Worth the wait 👌


I am the dark
And therefore
My light shines bright
Blinding eyes
To the darkness


@Sxxxxxxxxxxxe @dxxxxxxk @dxxxxxxk is becoming useless in their service, coverage and data speed. Same for @Mxxxxxxxxxxxxxa


It's often easier to convince others of something than to convince yourself.


Me alone with my thoughts is the most dangerous place I can be


You are
My muse
The one that awakens my deepest emotions
The one that colours my monochrome dreams
The one that inspires my poetic soul
The one that gives me meaning


I choose you
I will keep on choosing you
Over and over
Till the end of time


Confession. Was never a fan of Friends 😐


You were not
A choice
Or an option
You were
A blessing
And a privilege
Of the highest order


@axxxxxxxxxxc Absolutely. Poetry is life ❤️


@Mxxxxxxx7 Melting.. 🤤🤤


Knowing how to battle makes you a soldier. Know how to battle and when to battle makes you a warrior.


It is a true blessing to find a friend who will keep on believing in you when you've lost your way. Every warrior needs a faithful friend who can remind him of his strength when he himself has forgotten. https://t.co/qMeo0bccuG


I met me
When you met me


Newest episodes of Lucifer were meh.The episode where they break out in song and dance was a total waste.The episode with Lucifer's prank on Dan was also meaningless.The murder cases were so extremely predictable.Had to drag myself thru the episodes coz I was determined to finish


With the adoption of working from home, it seems many companies have lost sense of working hours. Employees are expected to be on call 24 hours. The words "urgent" and "ASAP" are more frequently being used, even during off hours and days.


Looked at
But unseen

Listened to
But unheard

Touched
But unfelt

Existing
Surviving
But not living..


Love is, in its essence,
An unlimitness
Limited to two hearts
A timelessness
Caught in a moment
An unconditional
Promised between two souls
Love has no reason
But is the reason

#poeticlicense #poetry #poems #infj


@nxxxxxxxxxxxxxk @Wxxxxxxxxxa Stay strong ❤️


"The broken are more evolved."
--The Beast, "Split"


Some days, even the sunlight is annoying


Best times to be at office - Early in the morning when no one else has come and after working hours when everyone else has left.


My alone time is for me to not do what I don't want to do.


There is not a single person on this earth who can pull us out of a bad mood if we don't want to be pulled out of it. We all have that one person who we wish would try to pull us out. The sad part is, that person usually misses the cue.


How do we say goodbye
When I have seen your soul
And you have seen mine..


Time..
Not enough time
To hold you
To comfort you
To feel you
To love you

But so much time
To long for you 
To cry for you
To wait for you 
To miss you

#poems #poem #poet #ItsOkayToNotBeOkay #poetry #INFJ


Accepting something and being resigned to the fact are two very different things


Love does not require you to demand  that you make someone a priority in your life. Love is understanding that sometimes there are other things/people that require your attention. True love will respect your other commitments.


Everyone should have a place/time where they can sit quietly and stare off into space thinking about absolutely nothing without being judged as a mental case.


Sometimes the worst place to be is inside my own head. But I've learned to find calm among the storm that rages. I'd much rather be lost in these storms of my own making.


Between what is said but not meant, and what is meant but not said, most of love is lost.


Have you ever heard a child screaming with laughter? An expression of absolute joy bubbling up and overflowing out of an innocent little mouth.. There is no other sound so pure as that ❤️❤️


Men label women as crazy and over-emotional simply because of egoistic reluctance to accept the fact that they, the men, may actually be the reason why a woman is upset.


For you, a million times..


@CxxxxxxxZ Absolutely 👌👌


All of this was sighted within the Sacred City of Polonnaruwa. This is shameful and shows the sheer idiocy of humans. 

Educate your children to be doctors, engineers, and all that. But above all else, teach them to pick up after themselves, and to not litter. https://t.co/11jR3IvoHr


A gift is made special, not by the gift itself, but by the giver.


Poetry is addictive. Once you start expressing through poems, there is no stopping. It serves as a release. Regardless of who reads or who understands, the poet must word out the storm in his/her head.


Have you seen
The minute's rest
A brief respite
From the burdens
Of a housewife
A working mom
A man supplying for his family
A son looking after elderly parents
Have you seen the moment's stillness
Where they take a second
To inhale
To exhale
To close their eyes
A minute's rest https://t.co/iLRDuH1efc


@wxxxxxxk 🤣 Good one


Why is the day that you get special half holidays so crazy damn busy?? 🤬😩


@dxxxxxxj Yes! This half holiday was absolutely pointless


See yourself through my eyes
You will fall madly in love ❤️💙


I personally would not want anyone wishing me long life, if it is not accompanied by good health. There is no point living a long, sick, bed-ridden life. That is no life at all.


Is it weird that I can sit in one place for hours on end, staring off into space, completely lost in thought?


It's always the last line in a poem that gets you. It's the hardest line to put together. The words just don't justify the emotion that is fighting to be expressed.


Sometimes all you want is to be alone in a dark, quiet corner with your head in your hands



