

Several decisions pertaining to the welfare of the public and the progress of the society were taken during the meeting between President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and all State Ministers held at the Presidential Secretariat yesterday (10).
Increasing the number of National Schools to 1,000 in the country is one such decision. Some of the existing National Schools are there only for the name. There are no adequate facilities available. These schools will also be developed expeditiously.
President and the State Ministers decided to appoint District Educational Committees for the development of school network. It was also decided to strengthen the liaison between zonal offices and divisional offices. The opportunity to contribute to any activity that will ensure the progress of the school system except transfer of teachers and admission of students is available for politicians. However, the President pointed out, it is only for the benefit of society and not for political interference.
Attention was drawn during the meeting to appoint Acting Principals to fill existing vacancies in Principal Grades. Teaching exams should be held once a year according to the Teacher Service regulations. The main reason for vacancies in Principal posts is due to the failure to conduct these examinations in a methodical manner. It was also decided to explore the possibility of appointing competent and experienced teachers in schools as Acting Principals.
Flooding in urban areas during the rainy season was another topic taken up for discussion. Even a minor rain would inundate the City of Colombo. “We introduced a permanent solution for this problem. It was not operative during the last 5 years and the issue remains. The responsibilities have been assigned to multiple institutes and it is one of the reasons for this failure.” President emphasized the significance of avoiding such weaknesses and resolving these issues immediately.
President and State Ministers, while taking the issues related to medical field into consideration, discussed the need for the amendment of the medical ordinance. Implementation of a proper procedure in importing medicine and amendments in regulations for importation practices were agreed during the discussion.
“We are capable of not only meeting the local medical requirements but also can claim a share in the global supply. We have investors stand by, if we can accomplish this it will be a historical victory for Sri Lanka” Head of the Presidential Task Force on Economic Revival Basil Rajapaksa noted.
It was discussed in detail the need to implement more effective measures aimed at controlling illicit drug trade while establishing Civil Defence Committees to assist the exercise of eradicating the drug menace.
The President also pointed out the importance of public service that can actively contribute to the development process of the country while improving the efficiency of their service. Some officials are afraid to take decisions. This situation must be changed. President Rajapaksa emphasized the need for politicians and government officials to work together to make the public service more efficient and streamlined.
Secretary to President, P.B. Jayasundera also participated in the discussion.



- A training institute for journalists
- Press Council Act to be amended
President Gotabaya Rajapaksa stated that if the Sri Lanka Post would look at how the international delivery and postal services operate and identify its untapped potential it can become a major contributor to the national economy.
President added that with the proper management of resources possessed by the SL Post it could reach this goal comfortably.
President Rajapaksa made these comments during a discussion with the State Ministry of Postal Services and Professional Development of Media Personnel to review its future plans at the Presidential Secretariat yesterday(September 29).
Sri Lanka Postal Department earns a revenue of Rs 8 billion annually and its expenses stand at Rs 14 billion. It has been revealed that due to salaries, overtime payments and other expenses the Postal Department suffers a loss of Rs 6 billion annually. It was pointed out that the introduction of new postal/delivery services and new technologies rendering the Postal Department operate swiftly and efficiently would make it a profit earning entity.
Old Postal Buildings could be renovated to be tourist attractions with the assistance of the Ministry of Tourism. It was decided to renovate the old Central Post Office building at Colombo Fort preserving its historical architecture.
Head of the Presidential Task Force for Economic Revival Basil Rajapaksa commended the Postal Department for its services during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic in distributing pharmaceuticals and other medication to the houses when the curfew was in effect.
“The improvements in “Speed Post” service provided by the Postal Department will attract more customers.” He added.
The gem businessmen are compelled to use expensive private delivery services for their exportation purposes. Mr. Basil Rajapaksa stressed that if the Sri Lanka Postal Services had implemented a Door to Door Delivery System it will be able to secure a higher revenue.
Focusing the discussion on Journalistic standards it was said that plans have been made to establish a training institute to improve professional skills of the journalists. An escalation in the number of complaints with regard to targeting and harassing certain individuals, institutes and businesses by certain electronic, printed and social media has come to light. All these facts were taken into account and the need to amend the Press Council Act was discussed in depth.
Taxes on dubbed foreign TV shows were removed during the COVID 19 pandemic upon request by the TV channels and it was decided to impose them again at the meeting.
It has been planned to introduce an impartial rating system covering the entire island to rank the local TV channels using the feedback of the spectators with the collaboration of the survey teams from the University of Kelaniya. It was agreed to allocate provisions and commence this programme immediately.
Minister Keheliya Rambukwella, State Minister Sadasivam Viyalendran, Secretary to the President, P.B. Jayasundera, Cabinet and State Ministry secretaries and Heads of the Line Institutes were present at the discussion.



A challenging decision taken after 60 years that should be achieved… Experts’ view.
President Gotabaya Rajapaksa said that the decision to start using organic fertilizer was taken towards endowing a healthy future generation to the country.
The “Vistas of Prosperity and Splendour” policy framework stated that the whole agricultural sector of the country should be transformed to use organic fertilizers entirely. It is the responsibility of the government to act in accordance with the pledges made to the people. Previous governments have tried to popularize the use of organic fertilizers but have not been able to sustain the practice. This is a challenging task; a difficult one, but it should be done on behalf of the country after identifying the correct strategy.
The President expressed these views at a meeting held with the members of the ‘Presidential Task Force on Creating a Green Sri Lanka with Sustainable Solutions to Climate Change’ at the Presidential Secretariat yesterday (11).
The President said that the government is ready to buy paddy for a higher price than the guaranteed price if there is any reduction in the yield due to the use of organic fertilizer. Therefore, he said the farmers should not have any fear in the initiative. The President said that the government is ready to bear the cost to ensure that the consumers can purchase rice for existing prices.
The President further stated that the government is ready to provide the necessary facilities if the companies that imported chemical fertilizers start producing organic fertilizer.
Taking part in the discussion, President’s Special Representative and the Chair of the Task Force, Mr. Basil Rajapaksa said, “Some battles were lost in the mission to save the country from terrorism. Finally, the country succeeded in defeating terrorism. Similarly, the government is ready to ensure the peoples’ right to a non-toxic meal by overcoming all the challenges.”
The experts in the field pointed out that the transformation of Sri Lanka’s agriculture, which has been accustomed to the use of chemical fertilizers since the early sixties, to the use of organic fertilizers would be a special victory bestowed upon the people similar to saving the country from the war.
Secretary to the President P.B. Jayasundera and the members of Presidential Task Force on Creating a Green Sri Lanka with Sustainable Solutions to Climate Change were present.



President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has taken a number of decisions to avoid impact on the people and the economy when imposing travel restrictions from 11.00 pm today (21) as a step to contain the spread of COVID 19.
During a discussion with the Presidential Task Force on COVID 19 at the Presidential Secretariat this morning (21), the President briefed the Ministers and relevant officials on the steps to be taken in this regard.
Steps should be taken to keep factories, pharmacies, shipping lines open and continue the production in bakeries as well as the distribution of food items during the travel restricted period. The President also instructed the relevant authorities to distribute essential food items to the public without any shortage using mobile services at the divisional level.
It was also instructed to provide the confiscated essential consumer goods that had been illegally imported into the country, to Sathosa and to assign the recruits from the 100,000 job opportunity programme to pack essential goods in Sathosa warehouses island-wide.
It was decided to issue the necessary permits by the Divisional Secretaries for the distribution of essential goods and to deploy the Army along with the police for the convenience of the roadblock operations.
The President also stressed that these travel restrictions should not impede regular daily cleaning routines including garbage disposal in all cities, road development and other constructions, agricultural activities, and to issue permits to transport the produce to the economic centers prior to the day they are scheduled to open.
The President also instructed the health authorities that if a person was tested positive for COVID 19 following the testing conducted at either a government or a private entity, the responsibility of treating them should also be given to the respective institution that conducted the testing.
It was also decided to use the facilities of the Ayurvedic hospital system in treating COVID 19 patients.
Although travel restrictions will be lifted on May 25th and 28th, the public will only be allowed to leave their homes to buy essential consumer goods. Several vaccines ordered from other countries will arrive in Sri Lanka shortly. The President emphasized the need to expedite the vaccination programme and contain the situation immediately.
President Rajapaksa said that instead of appearing unnecessarily in front of the media and intimidating the public, the government officials and responsible personnel should inform him directly about any issues.
President Rajapaksa added that the decisions taken up to now and to be taken in the future would be taken on the advice of the relevant expert groups and that he would not hesitate to take any decision for the sake of the people of the country.
The Ministers briefed the President on the steps that have been taken to meet the needs of the people during the travel restricted periods.
President Rajapaksa noted that it is the responsibility and duty of the people to follow the instructions given by the health sector to make the government programme to control the pandemic a success.
Ministers Pavithra Wanniarachchi, Gamini Lokuge, Johnston Fernando, Bandula Gunawardana, Prasanna Ranatunga, Ramesh Pathirana, Namal Rajapaksa, Rohitha Abeygunawardena, State Ministers Sudarshani Fernandopulle, Shasheendra Rajapaksa, Channa Jayasumana, MP Madhura Withanage, Senior Advisor to the President Lalith Weeratunga, Commanders of the three Armed Forces and the Heads of the Health sector were also present at the discussion.



- Many opportunities for local and foreign entrepreneurs to invest in Port City…
President Gotabaya Rajapaksa invited investors across the world to join on a transformational journey by investing in Sri Lanka.
‘The Government’s vision is to make the Colombo Port City a key service hub for one of the fastest growing regions in the world’, the President said adding ‘We encourage business leaders from all nations to make full use of the unique strengths and many opportunities that the Port City affords by investing here’.
The President made these remarks delivering the Keynote Address at the Sri Lanka Investment Forum 2021 commenced today (07). The three-day forum is organised by the Board of Investment, the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and the Colombo Stock Exchange.
The event will provide an overall experience and comprehensive understanding on the FDI and Capital Market opportunities in Sri Lanka. Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa will inaugurate the Day 2 of the forum while Day 3 will be inaugurated by Money and Capital Market State Minister Ajith Nivard Cabraal.
‘My Government has ambitious plans to unleash a decade of transformational and rapid economic growth to double our national output from its current level to 8,000 dollars GDP per capita by 2030’, the President said.
‘Our unique geostrategic position, political stability, robust institutions and social infrastructure, educated and capable workforce, and high quality of life are some of Sri Lanka’s current strengths. We will leverage on these to set the platform for our growth target’, he said.
‘For centuries, Sri Lanka has been a hub that connected the East and the West. With its world class port infrastructure in Colombo and in Hambantota, the country is capable of providing services even to the largest container ships that traverse the busy Indian Ocean’, President Rajapaksa added.
The country is well positioned to be a transhipment and logistics hub for the region. Therefore, the President said vast opportunities are available to make investments in this area.
The Government has taken a strong policy stance in support of healthy, organic agriculture. Sri Lanka will be able to supply high quality agricultural produce to health conscious consumers in the region in the future. Many opportunities for investment will be created in this context in the fields of new technologies and farming practices.
The Government’s objective is to ensure that 70% of our national power requirements by 2030 will be fulfilled by renewable energy sources. The President invited investments into large scale solar and wind power projects that can sustainably augment power supply and set the platform for further industrialisation and economic growth.
Sri Lanka has abundant sources of many raw materials that are used in several high-tech industries. The Government is keen to encourage investments into manufacturing industries that will add value to these resources and set the country on the path towards becoming a manufacturer of electronic components for the global market in the future.
Over 3,500 participants including investors across the globe are expected to join the three-day virtual forum. The organisers said the forum will be Asia’s first and largest virtual forum to attract foreign investments. A second session of the forum will also commence at 14.30 GMT/10.00 EST to cater to audiences in Europe and the US.
Justice Minister Ali Sabry, Urban Development State Minister Nalaka Godahewa, Indian High Commissioner Gopal Baglay, South Korean Ambassador Woonjin Jeong, Japanese Ambassador Akira Sugiyama, Chinese Ambassador Qi Zhenhong, European Union Delegation’s Deputy Head of Mission Thorsten Bargfrede and Chargé d’Affaires for the US Embassy Martin Kelly will also address the forum.
The Country Sessions will also see addresses by Sri Lankan Ambassadors and High Commissioners of the respective country.
Along with policy makers, the forum will feature much sought after international speakers who will share their views and opinions.
The full speech made by the President addressing the Sri Lanka Investment Forum 2021
It gives me great pleasure to address you at the inaugural session of the Sri Lanka Investment Forum 2021.
This event takes a holistic view of the many and varied investment opportunities Sri Lanka offers across all sectors of its economy.
It brings together the Board of Investment, Colombo Stock Exchange and the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, alongside key policymakers, entrepreneurs, and business leaders. This will encourage robust dialogue and information sharing about our investment environment, and it will highlight opportunities for direct investments as well as opportunities in capital markets and debt markets.
This investment forum comes at an important time for Sri Lanka.
My Government has ambitious plans to unleash a decade of transformational and rapid economic growth to double our national output from its current level to 8,000 dollars GDP per capita by 2030.
Our unique geostrategic position, political stability, robust institutions and social infrastructure, educated and capable workforce, and high quality of life are some of Sri Lanka’s current strengths. We will leverage on these to set the platform for our growth target.
In addition, significant improvements to our infrastructure are continually being made. These include increasing power generation from renewable sources, improving connectivity through upgrading of road and rail networks, and further expansion and improvements to our ports that will all facilitate our development drive.
We are deeply committed to maintaining policy stability and consistency within a stable macroeconomic environment. Our legal and regulatory frameworks are being refined to ensure greater responsiveness, transparency, and security for investors. Unnecessary bureaucratic red tape is being removed and procedures are being streamlined to ensure greater ease of doing business.
As President of Sri Lanka, I am determined to see these changes through and to further improve our already welcoming environment for investment.
There are significant opportunities across many economic sectors in Sri Lanka that can provide tremendous returns to foreign and local investors alike.
With its geostrategic location only a few hours away by air from major global hubs, Sri Lanka is one of the best-connected nations in all of South Asia. The commercial capital, Colombo, is one of the most attractive and liveable cities in the region.
The many opportunities this city affords will soon be greatly enhanced by the Colombo Port City, a new cityscape that will feature world class residential, commercial, social and entertainment facilities.
Our vision is to make the Port City a key service hub for one of the fastest growing regions in the world. Its residents will have all the facilities they need to do productive work, while enjoying a very high quality of life in a vibrant tropical beachside environment that fuses the best of both old and new.
Special legislation has already been passed to ensure special incentives and exemptions for businesses that can have a broad economic impact. We encourage business leaders from all nations to make full use of the unique strengths and many opportunities that the Port City affords by investing here.
For centuries, Sri Lanka has been a hub that connected the East and the West. With its world class port infrastructure in Colombo and in Hambantota, the country is capable of providing services even to the largest container ships that traverse the busy Indian Ocean.
The country is therefore well positioned to be a transhipment and logistics hub for the region, and we strongly encourage investments in this area. Legacy legislation and regulations that impede such investments are in the process of being revisited and revised to facilitate this.
With its very fertile environment and deep history of cultivation, Sri Lanka has a rich agrarian heritage spanning thousands of years.
With climate change becoming an increasing threat to food security the world over, we seek to combine this rich heritage with new technological advances to dramatically and sustainably enhance our agricultural output.
My Government has taken a strong policy stance in support of healthy, organic agriculture. I am confident that in the future, Sri Lanka can supply high quality agricultural produce to health conscious, demanding consumers in the region. Many opportunities for investment will be created in this context.
Given our national commitment to further enhancing our forest cover, the productivity of our agriculture base must improve without further increasing land use.
We therefore welcome investments into new technologies and farming practices that can increase yields in organic, healthy, and sustainable ways. We also seek improvements to our animal husbandry and fisheries sectors that can sustainably increase their productivity.
Investments into value adding businesses that can increase the export potential of our agricultural produce as well as our traditional export crops such as tea, rubber, and coconut are strongly encouraged.
As Sri Lanka seeks to expand its industrial base, one of the most significant requirements will be increased power generation.
My Government is committed to reducing the use of fossil fuels and ensuring that clean, renewable sources of energy contribute 70% of our national power requirements by 2030.
We therefore invite investments into large scale solar and wind power projects that can sustainably augment our power supply and set the platform for further industrialisation and economic growth.
Sri Lanka has abundant sources of many raw materials that are used in several high-tech industries. We are keen to encourage investments into manufacturing industries that will add value to these resources and set the country on the path towards becoming a manufacturer of electronic components for the global market in the future.
The Information Technology sector in Sri Lanka is especially robust. We have several companies that have made their mark internationally, and high-quality educational institutions produce many skilled workers in this field each year.
Our ongoing educational reforms will further enhance the quality and size of our IT workforce in the future. The Government is taking other proactive steps in addition to such talent development. This includes building new infrastructure including IT parks and enacting supportive policy mechanisms including a zero-tax policy for tech companies headquartered in Sri Lanka.
Sri Lanka’s geographic proximity to major undersea cables that transmit millions of terabytes of data make it an attractive destination for data centres and other operations that serve the information requirements of the region. This potential is being further strengthened with new legislation on personal data protection that is being formulated to bring the country’s legal and regulatory environment in line with global standards.
Sri Lanka has long been favoured as a destination for tourists from all over the world. Even though it has been severely impacted by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Sri Lanka is seeking to revitalize its vibrant tourism industry to take advantage of the likely post-pandemic travel boom.
Investments are therefore welcome into hotels, resorts, entertainment facilities, and experiential tourism projects that will attract high spending tourists to the country.
With its robust public healthcare system augmented by globally accredited private hospitals and world class, highly qualified, and experienced medical professionals, Sri Lanka is also well placed to benefit from the growing global medical tourism industry.
Investments into medical tourism projects are therefore encouraged, as are wellness tourism projects that will leverage our rich heritage of mindfulness, holistic healthcare, and the Ayurveda tradition.
With its many attractions, sound infrastructure, high quality of life, and its dynamic, educated and intelligent youth, Sri Lanka can also be a viable destination for leading universities to set up campuses that attract students from around the region.
My Government is prepared to proactively support such investments, just as it will truly transformative investments into the many other sectors I have discussed in this address.
During the course of these three days, participants at this event will be able to study these and the many other opportunities Sri Lanka affords in detail.
Equally importantly, you will be able to connect directly with policymakers at the highest level, as well as technical experts, project owners, and potential partners who can support your investment ambitions in Sri Lanka.
The Government of Sri Lanka is proactive and pro-business. We will look very favourably upon investments that can have a transformative impact on our economy as well as our national profile, and we will do our utmost to create an enabling environment for the success of such investments.
We now stand on the cusp of a national transformation that can not only uplift Sri Lanka but have positive impacts on the entire region while creating tremendous value for investors across multiple sectors and through diverse instruments.
I invite you to join us on this transformational journey by investing in Sri Lanka.
Thank you.



