


Got an e-mail this morning saying "Autolanka does not publish vehicles unless the full number plate is visible"
Actually I think it's a good idea.
BUT 
1. Shouldn't the sellers be informed about this new policy (on the confirmation page or somewhere) rather than waiting for the seller to send the photos and then reverting back?
2. How come I still see cars advertised (a 121 and a black civic advertised on 4th July 2011)?


Same thing here.
I posted my advertisement in Autolanka and send the emails with pictures to AL. But even after 1.5 days later I didn't receive payment confirmation e-mail. Only when I queried they said that they are not gonna post unless plates are visible. 
May be that car belong to a person who knows moderators/ owners. This is Sri Lanka man!


Moderators are only active on the forums and have no connection to the rest of the site. Speculating like that is most unwise.


Don't understand the reason why? Also what if it's an unregistered vehicle?


then it will say unregistered 
actually, I never figured out why people want to hide the number anyway... 
with paper ads and paying by the word, I can understand people shortening 300-1234 to 300, but why go to the trouble of editing the photo?


I guess the fear of figuring out slow moving vehicles when they see the advert. Doesn't make much sense though.


Asking price should also make mandatory including paper advertisements. One idiot wanted me to come all the way to chillaw to know the price of his vehicle.


There was some new regulation that was 'put in place' in March which made Price marking mandatory (http://www.dailynews.lk/2011/03/02/news22.asp) 
If implemented properly (you wish!) this should cover the classified ads as well?


But never hear anyone being penalized or reprimanded for not adhering by the Govt. 
MINIACE


LOL


Personally I agree with the policy and it should happen in paper ads or any other form of vehicle advertising.
However if number is available its easy to go through the insuarence guys and find out about the accident history if they have the right contacts.
If that happen i think that is also good. Buyers know exactly what they buy and can get it for right price.


Very true...... Same for the tobacco products law. 
PS:I have seen a foreigner smokes right in front of the Dalada Maligawa.Cop was there within visible range but didn't move. Don't know his language skills or another law applies for foreigners


One car sales guy told me they have gone through tough times for not displaying prices of cars, when I asked why the prices were displayed with each car. This is a second hand car sale. 
Usual issue with laws here is they get implemented but not enforced peopely.


Spot on Vishwa, told the same thing to that idiot but couldn't waste much time on it. Yes, as a result now car sales guys put up the price tag on the vehicles including secondhand vehicles.


this is from a Sinhalese newspaper, will someone find an English article for English reading users. 
price_information.JPG: 
Mad Z, seems it's high time to make the selling price mandatory in advertisement section.


Saw in the news few weeks back about couple of car sales fined for not displaying the price.


This law is already enforced strictly on retail business, even small boutique should have a price list. First time I heard it has also being enforced to vehicle market through that car sales guy. Whatever said and done, a good move.


Ha ha maybe he wanted to see how you looked.  .Personaly even I think this is a good idea,this will reduce our telephone cost when searching for a vehicle


Oh there you go..so thats some kind of action taking place  ? Good scene.
MINIACE


oh please..... I've seen MONKS smoke inside temples. Even had one who would visit us from time to time and he would make sure our door was shut so no one else would see him smoke and drink. Also know a   (sp?) who hits the gambling tables daily. I would be less worried with foreigners smoking in front of temples if I were you.


I would always like see the number plate in the car that is advertised. Through this requirement the buyer does not get played out. If you do not put the number plate the buyer can get played out once he actually buys the car. It is like showing pretty girl and arranging the old girl who does not look so nice when you go to marry.


usually owners get pissed about people continually calling after they sold the car, so they will usually contact the site and ask them to remove it... failing that, you can always "report the ad" to AL... trust they would investigate and remove the ad if needed


Yes agree. Also i have seen in some sites owner himself can remove the ad..


Well, I think its sellers responsibility to call AL and inform once the car is sold, I did it, and I didn’t take long for AL to remove my add…


i think it's more useful if there is Sold or Inactive like information mentioned. because there is no way to know weather vehicle is sold or not until we call the owner.




I ment  (head of the kovil). lol.


Isn't a  a marriage broker? Thought his job was gambling... that a marriage between parties would work!


AL Classifieds are not offering cars for sale as online purchases. So your theory does not apply. Its the buyer's responsibility to go inspect the car prior to committing




downloaded one DVD which contained my vehicle. and found they only have USA models.


Hi mates,
Found this on internet...
http://www.dl4all.com/software/871846-alldata-1030-full-complect-on-31xdvd-1982-2011.html
Tried to download it but it's 250 GB, so gave up. 
Hope this will useful to you.
cheers!




its varying from 1% to 3%, higher the reputation, experience..higher the rate.
some architects charge per sq feet. I was talking to one guy, who is charging Rs 30 per sq feet and Rs 2500 per visit.
Note that above rates are for "full service"


Anybody has any idea of the percentage they charge?
Tks.


A recommended percentage based on the cost as specified 'Sri lanka Institute of Architects "condition of engagement" which basically covers from inception to the completion.


Thanks guys.
Is a rate of 6.5% too much for architectural fees? This also includes advice for interior and landscape design. Travel costs not included.
I was told that the SLIA rate for a house between 5 to 10 million is 7.8%.




we call it garage


Here we go again,a guy that reps himself


yes


a garage?


What is a good place to get repaired toyota cars?


OK,What are the good garages to repair a toyota car?


Whats the repair?


Mate, Go to To**ta Lanka. 
Thilak


Their repair bill will probebly give u anidea of abandoning u'r old car and buying a new one
this also increases the sales in the showroom dosen't it.


Then you should have seen a bill from D#vid P#ries


When it comes to Toyotas any good garage will do a proper job. Thats same with Nissans in SL.So choose a reputed garage and visit. You may search AL for few good garages.Remember there was a topic related to 'good garages'.Sure you need local specialists for Hondas, Mazdas,Beemers ,Mersc etc but not for Toyota (and Nissans) AFAIK.
BTW what kind of repair job you looking and what the car?
MINIACE


FYI they used to do Ford,and those a cars


I don't use motor bikes and 3 wheelers


Toyota Lanka do a vehicle health check for about 6k. The vibration could be many different things like with the throttle body, sensors etc., so best you find out what it is and then go to a different place to get the work done.


They do Chery QQ too. Tho calling those cars are kinda debatable.


Most probably your car has a problem with Engine mounts, you may need to replace those. Any good gurage would do it.


The car is Allion 240.Car is vibrating a bit when it stops and the gear is in 'D'.When the gear is on 'N' and 'P' -no vibrations.And when accelearates a bit the vibration goes off.




now thats a hybrid i really want to own.. its beautiful..


someone sent itusing air cargo? wonder how much that cost....


I saw the other car in kohuwela,she is simply stunning.


2 door? 
As far as I know the whole point of a Panamera was a 4 door porsche... 
Look closely, the handles are visible in the picture


Anyone knows who the lucky owner is ?


These are pics of a 2 door hatch


So now there are 2,right guys,and hope she doesnt get those dirty petrol.


thanks for sharing Uditha she's a beauty.


what ever people say about the Panamera's looks, it is in my opinion the most classy four door sedan in Sri Lanka, if not the world.


the first panamera hybrid is here due to arrive in sl by mid august


These cars are merely in transit... heading for singapore.


Bro, she is an absolute beauty!!!!!
BTW the background looks like the cargo village of Katunayake air port.... Am I correct....


She is a beauty,hey Uditha thnks for sharing,mind if I ask you,where'd you get the pics ?


I stand corrected. Thanks


i dont think it's owner is in sl as Supra Natural said it may be heading for singapore or some other country but i could be wrong.


You Beauty....  .


Its gorgeous....but the "hybrid" at the back ruins it for me.... Call me vain, but I would like my Porsche to sound like a porsche, but this bad boy looks awesome parked!


must have been, look at it, for me, it stands out from most porche's


But some Hybrids are actually faster than the non-hybrid variant: for example the Lexus GS450h


There are two panameras here. But still not hybrids. First three Panamera hybrids will get here in next month. One for a sun of a well known politician in Kelaniya and for two young cricketers. This beauty was priced around 14 million before the tax hike(correct me if i'm wrong). I think the above car is in transit at Katunayake to a another country.


WTF any pictures anyone


There was an SLK200 with the panamera..... I heard a Bentley will be comming in today..




like sponsor a video on how to run a IT company


Ela .. good channel to subscribe to.


May be NSFW
Video here.


You mean to say like to create certain kind of a movie and to sell it for 9 dollars a download?  There`s plenty around with the "dirty mechanic" concept eh?


good find Sifaan and nice channel to watch.


You two better hope your wives never see this site.


Talking about a money making model always encouraged by wives isn't it?


finding girls to dress like that - ok, not too hard
finding girls who could change the oil - bit harder
finding girls to dress like that and who can change the oil - 
on the other hand, a car wash.... ohh la la


What if someone starts a service center exactly like this?


there's a nice business idea embedded to the vid..


Ha ha good critique. Thats where supervisors can add value lol. Besides that I can find hundreds of supervisors whom would volunteer to perform the job.




sometime they may be cheap always look for date of manufacture as i once had a bad experience by getting a fat discount from SK munasinghe's (had repeated blow outs)!!


yes amila tyres give a good deal else olympic tyre at havelock road.


Tire prices are available on their local websites. U can find the agent by using brand name & google and go to the local website. Don't have time to do it for u. sorry.


yeah, but most of those were updated few years ago; so you have to actually call them and ask.


GT Champiro 185/65/14 will cost you abt 7500-7750.


Checked prices with several places, seems it has gone up. Last Dec I got 195/55/15 Good Year NCT 5 for 10k. Now 185/65/14 Good Year is 10500. 
This year is not a Good Year.


Yep. All the Tyre prices have increased.


May I know the place?


Just inquired from SK Munasinghe, The Jap tyre is 12,100 but said would be able to further discount if I come there 
Unfortunately they only have SP Sport from Indonesia. I actually love that Tyre as I had those before and very good grip and wear.



