


The Cholera pandemic during the early 1830s hit France hard. It wiped out nearly 3% of Parisian, and hospitals were flooded with patients and doctors who could not understand the disease. At the end of the plague, France, along with Britain, subscribed to the industrial revolution. Anyone who has read “Les Mesérable” knows the pandemic also contributed to a political revolution.
The city poor who were hit hardest by the pandemic exploded against the rich who fled to their country homes to avoid contamination. France saw political instability afterward.
So how will our economy boost after the pandemic?
With countries lifting the stay-at-home orders and promoting vaccinations, the world economy is now in a recovery mode. However, the situation is still unclear for many economists and policymakers. So let us take a glimpse at our history and what it tells us about the post-pandemic boom?
History suggests that after a series of disruptions like world wars and pandemics, GDPs bounce back. It offers three lessons- People like to spend, crises encourage business to employ new innovations and political instabilities.
People like to spend
History suggests that people accumulate savings during the first phase of economic recovery as spending opportunities vanish. Even in the first half of the 1870s, British household savings rates doubled during the smallpox era. Japan’s savings rate doubled during the first world war.
History also offers us a guide to what people do once life gets back to normal. Spending rises along with employment, but not in excess. History also shows when the Spanish flu was defeated in 1920, America felt like “a sick and tired” nation. According to Goldman Sachs, an American consumer spends only 20% of their saving during 1946–49 (after world war II). And in 1949, the economy went into recession. Therefore, there is still little evidence of pandemic inducing surges in inflation.
Employing new innovations
Taking about the supply side of the economy- meaning how and where goods and services are produced. Some people may try new innovations to earn money. Historians believe that the Black Death made Europeans more adventurous. Piling on ships and sailing towards new lands- something less risky than people dying at home. According to the National Bureau of Economic Research published in 1948, the number of startups increased during 1919.
The economists have made another link between pandemic and use of labour and technology. A research paper by IMF looks at recent outbreaks such as Ebola and SARS. The findings suggest the pandemic speeds up the employment of robots, especially when health is a significant issue — for example, the rise of automation in America during the 1920s. Some have even made links between the Black Death and Johannes Gutenberg Press.
A paper published by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco finds real wages increase after the pandemic. Sometimes, this is through the macabre mechanism.
Political Instability
When people have suffered in large, attitudes could shift towards the working class. Such incidences have led to political disorder. This is because pandemics can sometimes force us to look at pre-existing inequalities and political instability. Ebola in 2013–16 increase violence in West Africa by 40%. “It is reasonable to assume that, as the pandemic fades, unrest may re-emerge in locations wherever it previously existed,” researchers write in another IMF paper. Social unrest seems to peak two years after the pandemic ends. Therefore, appreciate the boom while it endures. Before long, there may be a twist in the story.
https://medium.com/illumination/lessons-from-history-about-post-pandemic-booms-df7e61d2cf8c





Last edited by Vishwanarth on Wed Jan 20, 2021 4:39 pm; edited 1 time in total
Last edited by Vishwanarth on Wed Jan 20, 2021 4:39 pm; edited 1 time in total
Encyclopedia of Latest news, reviews, discussions and analysis of stock market and investment opportunities in Sri Lanka
START NEW TOPIC
SHARE LATEST NEWS
ADD EXPERT ARTICLE New
වංශකථාවක් සිංහලෙන් ලියන්න
ADD ECONOMIC UPDATE New
ADD YOUTUBE VIDEO New
SEARCH COMPANIES
REGISTER FREE
ADMIN HELP
INTRODUCE YOURSELF New ASK A QUESTION
CHRONICLE™ANALYTICS CHRONICLE™ANALYTICS
CHRONICLE™ YouTube
ECONOMIC CHRONICLE™
EXPERT CHRONICLE™
CORPORATE CHRONICLE
FINANCIAL CHRONICLE (SRI LANKA)
SHARES TO BUY Hot
SHARES TO SELL
SHARES TO HOLD
SHARES TO AVOID
UNDERVALUED SHARES BLUE CHIPS
SMALL CAPS SMALL CAPS
PENNY STOCKS
TOP 10 DIVIDEND STOCKS New
LERAN TO TRADE New MY SHARE PORTFOLIO
CHRONICLE™ ANALYTICS
CHRONICLE™ INDEX New
BULLISH SENTIMENTS
BEARISH SENTIMENTS PREDICTIONS»
MARKET TOMMORROW Hot
TELLER'S PREDICTIONS
MAHARAJA'S ADVICE Hot
KARUNA'S CHOICE
PLAYER'S PICK OF THE DAY MALTHA MALINA EXCLUSIVE
කොටස් වෙළඳපොළ2020 OPINION OF IMTIAZ BUHARDEEN
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP)
You are not connected. Please login or register
Go to page : 1, 2, 3 ... 9, 10, 11
Message [Page 11 of 11]
Last edited by Vishwanarth on Wed Jan 20, 2021 4:39 pm; edited 1 time in total
lbnnirmal, Eranga87, RJ1010, subash81, invest thinker, Dilendra23 and TD like this post
invest thinker, SL-INVESTOR, C.THARANGA and Sachira90 like this post
SL-INVESTOR and C.THARANGA like this post
@1xxxxxl wrote:I feel Bank run is temporary. It's need another 3 months to understand real financial scenario.
This is my personal opinion...
Investors will have no faith on sub division due to too many sub divisionsInvestors will have no faith on sub division due to too many sub divisions@1xxxxxl wrote:@1xxxxxl wrote:I feel Bank run is temporary. It's need another 3 months to understand real financial scenario.
This is my personal opinion...
World of HAYLES, subdivision can negatively effect bank buyers sentiment.....
it's your decision
.......
SL-INVESTOR and Sachira90 like this post
ADVENTUS, Love Boy and judecroos like this post
ADVENTUS and judecroos like this post
dayandacool and judecroos like this post
madukp likes this post
HNB,SAMP and COMB are trading @ very discounted prices, I mean BARGAIN PRICES . Any one want to do an investment now is the correct time. Because even in our difficult times these banks showed a strong growth. GLHNB,SAMP and COMB are trading @ very discounted prices, I mean BARGAIN PRICES . Any one want to do an investment now is the correct time. Because even in our difficult times these banks showed a strong growth. GL@Ixxxxxxxxxxxl wrote:HNB seems to be lucrative at current price.
Thushara Ayya, madukp, RJ1010 and Bakkabwoi like this post
Mario likes this post
TraderCSE, Nandun and judecroos like this post
judecroos likes this post
Yes true HNB is under valued and should trade much higher than the current prices.Yes true HNB is under valued and should trade much higher than the current prices.@bxxxxxxxxxxt wrote:Hnb is the most undervalued share and it is a risk-free investment..
Why...
In 2017 HNB issued shares through the right issue and the share price was HNB N 220/-
HNB X 190/-
https://i.servimg.com/u/f42/19/01/45/26/screen10.jpg
HNB X Pass Rs 130 as soon as possible..share sub division on the way..HNB X Pass Rs 130 as soon as possible..share sub division on the way..@bxxxxxxxxxxt wrote:Hnb is the most undervalued share and it is a risk-free investment..
Why...
In 2017 HNB issued shares through the right issue and the share price was HNB N 220/-
HNB X 190/-
https://i.servimg.com/u/f42/19/01/45/26/screen10.jpg
Sub-division?Sub-division?@sxxxxi wrote:HNB X Pass Rs 130 as soon as possible..share sub division on the way..HNB X Pass Rs 130 as soon as possible..share sub division on the way..@bxxxxxxxxxxt wrote:Hnb is the most undervalued share and it is a risk-free investment..
Why...
In 2017 HNB issued shares through the right issue and the share price was HNB N 220/-
HNB X 190/-
https://i.servimg.com/u/f42/19/01/45/26/screen10.jpg
Message [Page 11 of 11]
Go to page : 1, 2, 3 ... 9, 10, 11
FINANCIAL CHRONICLE™ » CORPORATE CHRONICLE™ » BANKING SECTOR
Permissions in this forum:
You cannot reply to topics in this forum



No Comment.
The first of three new ‘special purpose vehicles’ (SPVs) under the Treasury-owned Selendiva Investments (Pvt) Ltd is to be registered next week to raise capital for the development and revival of three hotel properties: the long-overdue Grand Hyatt Colombo, Colombo Hilton and the Grand Oriental Hotel (GOH).
The SPV–the name of which is yet to be revealed–will also seek to infuse funds into a subsidiary created last year under Waters Edge called Waters Edge Recreation Ltd which will build and operate mixed development projects on identified Urban Development Authority-owned or acquired lands around Colombo and also the Jaffna International Coordinating Centre.
Once the first cluster raises capital for Selendiva, it will proceed to the next clusters and against start trading shares for fresh funds. The other clusters will include the historic General Post Office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Cey-Nor and the Gaffoor buildings in the Fort. The same process will be followed.
The complicated arrangement is part of a grand scheme led by the Urban Development and Housing Ministry to follow Singapore’s Temasek Holdings model. Temasek is owned by the Singapore Government and is an active shareholder and investor, mostly in shares.
It is also the outright owner of many assets. Sri Lankan officials followed a 10-day seminar organised by Temasek while the company’s senior representatives also visited Colombo.
SPVs are subsidiaries created by a parent company–in this case, Selendiva Investments–with their own assets, liabilities and legal status. Formed in July last year, Selendiva is owned 100 percent by the Treasury. Two more SPVs are in the works: one for a real estate cluster and another for the creation of a “heritage square”. All of them will target under-performing State-owned assets.
The Government is keen to dispel rumours that it is “selling off valuable State lands”, said Urban Development Ministry Secretary Nimal Perera, who headed the UDA when Mahinda Rajapaksa was President and Gotabaya Rajapaksa was the Urban Development ministry secretary. Today, Gotabaya Rajapaksa is President and Mahinda Rajapaksa is the subject minister.
“Selendiva is the Government’s investment arm,” Mr Perera said. “It was formed to take over under-utilised, under-performing Government assets, to restructure them, form them into viable organisations and to list 49 percent of their shares in the stock market while retaining 51 percent with the Government.”
The new leisure SPV will be a holding company combining Canwill Holdings (Pvt) Ltd, Hotel Developers (Lanka) Plc (HDL) and the Bank of Ceylon-held Hotels Colombo (1963) Ltd. The first owns Hyatt, the second runs Colombo Hilton and the last, GOH. Canwill itself is held by the Government’s Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation, Litro Gas and the Employees’ Provident Fund.
Together, Canwill, HDL and Hotels Colombo will hold 90 percent equity in the SPV while 10 percent will be with Selendiva Investments as “promoter shares” since it will help raise capital for the projects. Selendiva will also have the golden share which gives it veto power.
Forty-nine percent of the SPV’s shares will be listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange, said Shamahil Mohideen, Selendiva Investments Chief Executive Officer. The money will be used to complete the Grand Hyatt, refurbish rooms at the long-neglected Colombo Hilton and enable expansion of GOH.
“We are consolidating the balance sheets of these three assets under the holding SPV, issuing shares to the existing shareholders of the three separate entities and then listing the SPV because we need a substantial asset to go to the stock market and generate funds,” he explained.
When listed, the shares may be purchased by anyone–this is the means of raising capital for the projects. The companies will be run by a management.
“There are two ways,” Mr Mohideen, a hospitality industry veteran, said. “You can get a strategic investor. Or you can raise money in the stock market, again from the private sector. We have given accommodation to both proposals.”
“Any strategic investor can come and take any of those assets,” he continued. “Though they are under one holding company, they can also be divested singly on a 49-51 percent equity basis if the investor brings expertise, because that is value addition and technical expertise that can develop and make this asset profitable. That is our main objective.”
While these are long-term plans, there are immediate priorities. The first is to complete the Grand Hyatt which has stagnated since 2012 amidst numerous issues. Just 24 percent of work was done at a cost of Rs 22bn. The termination of an Italian contractor led to him winning an arbitration award of 9.2mn Euros.
The Government subsequently negotiated this down to 7.2mn Euros but is yet to pay. Selendiva also brought down the project cost from Rs 60bn to Rs 48.5bn and, consequently, increased the return on investment from a measly 1 percent to 12.5 percent.
“We are scheduled to open at floors with 222 rooms including restaurants at the end of December this year,” Mr Perera said. Maga is now the main contractor with other subcontractors. The franchise owner, Hyatta, has not withdrawn from the project and is also welcome to buy shares, Mr Mohideen said. It would be a similar arrangement to Colombo Hilton which is run by the global franchise but owned by the Ministry of Finance.
The GOH was recently restored and refurbished at a cost of Rs 269mn. “Now we want to create marketability for it and to expand the remaining area,” the Selendiva CEO said. “There’s another 160-odd thousand square feet of the York Street building which is idling. We want to raise funds from the stock market to improve that area.”
Whatever properties Selendiva Investments develops are leased on commercial terms from the UDA. “The UDA acquires those lands and gives them to us on a long-term lease,” Mr Mohideen said. “It’s the same as they would do for a private investor except here it’s a Government organisation paying the same commercial terms.”
But sceptics fear that this initiative is part of a scheme to hand over valuable properties to China. Mr Perera said there was no such conspiracy and that it was merely an effort to turn around under-performing, under-used Government assets.
“It’s important to say we cannot discriminate against investors,” Mr Mohideen said. “But we will have a transparent process, whoever it is. And there will be accountability for any losses made. It will be our responsibility to transform these institutions.”
The accountability comes from the stock market listing which mandates adherence to corporate governance and transparency, among other rules. Financial statements will be available online. Separately, reports must be submitted every six months to Cabinet. Accounts are audited by the National Audit Office. (Where GOH is concerned, even the 2018 accounts have not yet been audited).
None of the buildings will be knocked down. They are all protected edifices and will be restored. And the heritage square was particularly important for Colombo, Mr Mohideen said. The capital needs a tourist market outside of corporate visitors. While it was earlier a hub from which they travelled to resorts, better roads have made this unnecessary.
“Now we have more than 4,000 room keys and so many hotels coming in,” he pointed out. “We have to create viability for all this.”
There wasn’t much for tourists to see in Colombo. “We have to create the vibrancy, the attraction, because it creates jobs and increases foreign exchange income,” he said. “We have so many properties, colonial buildings, which are completely dilapidated. We must restore them and exhibit them. It will create that climate, ambience and culture to draw in tourists and create a different branding for Colombo city.”
Now is the time to prepare, officials say. Then, when the market returns to normal and the global economy recovers, Sri Lanka will be ready.
http://www.sundaytimes.lk/210606/news/spore-style-ppp-ventures-kick-off-next-week-for-prime-colombo-locations-446133.html



The Chinese and US commerce ministers agreed to push forward trade and investment links in their first call since the start of the Joe Biden administration.
Chinese Commerce Minister Wang Wentao and his counterpart Gina Raimondo “agreed to promote the healthy development of pragmatic cooperation in trade and investment”, in a phone call yesterday. The two “exchanged views frankly and pragmatically on relevant issues and mutual concerns”, according to a Chinese government statement.
The two nations are slowly resuming official contact after the January change of administration in the United States.Some parts of USpolicy towards China are becoming clearer, but it’s still not publicly clear what the USplans to do with the ‘Phase One’ trade deal signed last year or tariffs on Chinese goods.
The call was the third between senior officials in recent weeks, after Vice-Premier Liu He spoke with US Trade Representative Katherine Tai and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen.The USCommerce Department did not respond to a request for more details on the call.
Stocks rose across Asian markets and the region’s currencies posted modest gains versus the dollar after the news. The CSI 300 Index gained about 1.1 per centin the morning trading session.
China last week stated that normal communications between the two countries have started, according to Commerce Ministry Spokesman Gao Feng. The two sides have agreed to pragmatically solve some issues for producers and consumers, and promote healthy, stable economic and trade ties, he said.
However, USstatements on the relationship with China aren’t so positive.
The trade relationship with China has “significant imbalance” and the Biden administration is committed to levelling it, Ms Tai said on the weekend before a meeting of Asia-Pacific trade ministers. There are parts of the United States-China relationship “that are unhealthy and have over time been damaging in some very important ways to the US economy”, she said.
“I won’t get overly excited” about the call, said Alvin Tan, head of Asia currency strategy at RBC Capital Markets LLC. “It’s positive in the sense that both countries are stepping up” economic and trade communication, but no game-changing decisions or announcements have come out, he said.
Ms Tai will talk with her Taiwanese counterpart soon, the Wall Street Journal reported earlier. The two sides will soon discuss “some kind of framework agreement,” Secretary of State Anthony Blinken said earlier this week.
However, China opposes any official contact between the USand Taiwan, which it regards as part of its territory, and any negotiations or discussions will inevitably be linked with US-China relations, and could increase the tensions between the two.
– Beijing (Bloomberg)
https://island.lk/china-and-u-s-agree-to-push-forward-trade-investment-ties/




