


good


how Is IST 2002/2003 Model


how is performane(fuel consumption)




Axio X got a 1NZFE CVT tranny if im not mistaken.I have seen few 1NZ CVT boxes at Silva Motors Kurana and one at JND Narammala (Im not really sure about this you can call them). Guess you need to take her to a good tranny technician.We have talked about a good guy in Seeduwa, browse and find please, if failed will post all contact details here.Good Luck!
MINIACE


Dear All
I tried to search the forum but most of them are about Honda CVT gear Boxes
Infact the issue is with Borther's Car , corolla Axio 2007 model , X grade
It has started some roarding sound and a avibration and when they visited a garage where they do the running repairs they ahve mentioned that the issue was in the gear box and has started reparing the gear box
I am not sure whther they are capable of repairing CVT gear Box
later they have mentioned that it is a bearing in the gear box that has caused the problems and has looked for bearings from reconditioned and also from agents. No luck and they have tried to repair the bearing.
still no luck and the car is at the garage for about 2 weeks now
Do any one of you have any comments ?
Do you know any place to look for a second hand ( reconditioned) CVT gear BOX 
or a good place to do a repair
thanks a alot
Mike


thanks for the reply guys


r u finding the particular bearing?




Toyota Prius
Honda CR-Z
Toyota Axio
Civic hybrid


Hi Friends,
I willing to go for an unregistered vehicle with the budget of 4.5 million,
Can you please suggest best one.
Toyota/Honda/Mazda and model please.
Thanks in Advance


Thanks brother for your advice. Actually I like Mazda Axela, I had 2007 model and sold out 3 days back only.
You mean, can I get new model with my budget? if not my choice is Honda Civic(hybrid/normal) do you think anything that I have to bother about when I am going for Honda Hybrid?


You can't expect generic advise on buying cars without citing preferences for usage, fuel, personality, age etc .. for example, I would find CR-Z exiting on the above list with the rest being bloody boring (Civic Hybrid maybe just boring and Prius bloody, annoyingly boring)! 
If you can stomach the agents, car mart has a offer on brand new M3 these days, starting within your budget and Ford also has a few models, if you're looking for brand new.


Hope I'm not going off a tangent here, but may I also humbly suggest you to try out the Ford Focus? The version without all the fancy options go for around that price and it still has more options and comfort than any Jap u can think of.


Carmart has been advertising a lot on the new M3 & M2 cars, surprising you have not seen these and the new M3 looks nice and according to a friend of mine it handles well and quite comfortable...
Although the Ford is a US brand the car is made elsewhere, but I think the M3 is still coming out of Japan,so it should be better. Anyway just double check the country of origin.
Also I think things are improving at Carmart, and its not like what it used to be in the past... they were easily the worst agents ever.... but there seem to be a visible turnaround, and about time too.


FYI Ford Focus is made in Spain. It's the only B/N European car you can get for that price range. I checked out Mazda3 also before I decided on the Focus. Focus has by far better build quality, options and comfort than Mazda 3. Only complain I have, is it's underpowered. 1.6ltr engine is not enough for the Focus. Nevertheless it does about 10 to the litre so I'm ok with it.


There used to be a time you could get an Allion 260 for that type of money. Maybe you can if you find an unsold 2007 version ...
Crosswind the 1.6 focus feels underpowered? I thought that is the most popular petrol engine for that model even in Europe. I mean its no speedy racer but it feels more than adequate to tackle the motorways and cruise at 70mph.




GM Guys,
Has any one fixed a power shutter unit to ur normal manual shutter car? if so can i do same to an Alto ? if its plz let me know from where i can make it true. 
Thankx.
N3L$


How much they Cost sir?


Call Sunlanka hotline 0773436677 and check the cost.Then go on price a comparison trip.
MINIACE


if your car japanies you can fix it as original. but i am not sure you may find out original units for your ALTO


My Car Is Indian Alto LXI Can Fix it as Japan Alto?


i don't know about indian Alto


Very easily you can get it done. There are plenty of places on Darley Rd doing the same.I would say Sun L, or Rexton Motors adjoining Fire brigade is OK.
MINIACE


Heard thats 16500 up with 1 year warranty.
MINIACE


if this is corolla AE110 or AE100 you can change all 4 doors for around 22,000/-


Dude you cant find replacement doors or panels for Indian cars here.
MINIACE


S*n L*nka 13800/= only for rear doors, but no control option for driver. as they mentioned this is a promotional offer. otherwise it will be around 15,500/=. there are few shops adjoining to the S*n L*nka they will probablty do the same with lower cost.


Miniace,
Agents in their work shop have new doors and all parts for Indian cars. Friend of mine had a accident on his driving side two doors. Bus crashed to his car so agents charged two doors and other things with paint work 165000,00 Within 18 days they returend the car. All doors and fittings of doors were new.
Sylvi Wijesinghe.


This was recommended by Ripper sometimes back. I never visit this guy as I have done by the other way. But many A/L members has recommended him
Darley road Ruwan near the fire brigade. Rexton motors is the name.
http://forum.autolanka.com/index.php?/topic/10688-security-system/page__p__154160__hl__+fire%20+brigade__fromsearch__1#entry154160


Does anyone know of a good place to repair power shutters, I don't want to blindly got to Darly road as you get all sort of fellows and chances are they might mess it up more.


yes thats why i told, i don't know about indian alto


MINIACE


Is it exchange current doors (without power shutters) to 4 doors with power shutters for 22k or can we just buy 4 p/s doors for 22k without giving them the current doors ?
Btw I think normally doors with power shutters have power mirrors too right ? So if I changed doors of my CE110 I'll get power shutters + power mirrors right  Or am I missing something ?
Mine is a DX trim and I desperately need power shutters but hate the aftermarket units. I need the original look with all the upholstery of the doors etc...
One more thing, Are these power shutters/mirrors wired independently of the electrical/electronic items ? So fitting it to car which was not designed for power shutters wouldn't mess up anything right ?


The Don has given almost a complete answer.
The designing of inner door panels are different between SE saloon (and some brand new versions) and other versions like XE.
It should ideally match the colour/texture of the seats and original floor mats.
I think the CE110 DX version does not have rear head rests as well ; you might have to change all these if you wanna get the real original looking. (I know you only ask for PS yet I just wanna add this just to guide you)
Do not forget to buy the power mirror switch (+/- with retract switch) if you are planning to fix PM as well.
You may redo the inner upholstery if they are not matching.
Regarding the price, I recently saw a complete driver side door with PM at Rs15000/= at Delkanda


normally one complete power door was 5,000/- power mirrors you have to buy seperatly. Normally driver side door is bit expencive. but you can buy it maximum 8,000/-


@Nxxxxxxx,
Are u sure about the prices of those used units?
I saw a fully complete XE trim driver side door with power mirror at price of 15,000/=, separate dual power power mirror unit was Rs 5000 X 2; May be their price is too high!


Amila, if you are lucky the wiring for the power shutters will already be there for your car. You can check near the wire loom connector on the a pillar the door is connected to (it will be blanked out with a plastic plate but on cars with power shutters a wire loom goes into this) and see if the connector is there. I suspect it is so swapping normal doors for power doors should be fairly easy.
Now power mirrors are a different proposition. Here again the connectors and the wiring is probably there but you need a power mirror control unit, certain relays etc which probably aren't there. So this will require an electrician to complete the job I think but its certainly not impossible.


obviously he was not telling you that........dont be silly.......but what he told was true.....


Thanks...


don't check only one place. all ppl teling prices looking the man who asking the price. if they think they can grab money they try to take more


Errr...... so what you mean is when buying something go dressed like a beggar, then you will get a better price....




I too agree but I was not there to buy a door but I was able to get it's weather strip (chrome plated) removed at a cost of 1200/= and inner door handle was 1000/=!


Y don't u buy a car with options?




For 9, can go for a full option Doctor sunny.but will be bit difficult for you to find.or try a Mazda 323.or if you can increase your budget bit more can go for a At170 corona.


There are Maruti Esteem's ,a Sedan with 1300cc Engine,Power Shutters and central Locking. I saw a 302- in Autolanka, most of these cars are not EFI. you can find a English Number Esteem with EFI for 10 lacks.


Or a better choice will be 19- EP82 if u can spend 11-12 lacks. It's a reliable car


what about a Lancer CB1A/CB2A or a diesel lancer cb8?


Hi Experts,
I sold may Grand Civic recently and need to buy a car with below options.
Better fuel comsumption and economical in maintenance.

Should be able to sale easily......since my plan is to use it for one year and go to a better one.

Year of manufacture : 1994 or later

Better if it has Power Shutters and Power Mirros (But not must)

Doesn't matter whether it is a sedan or a hatch-back


Could you please advice me for a better option?
My budget is around 9 lacs
Thanks in advance........


Maruti 800 will meet all your requirements.


Thanks for the suggestion......mm......but would like to have something else......how about Toyota Tercel or Corsa? Would it be a possible option for my budget? Any other possible options?


a mazda 323?


i assume you are looking for a japanese one. If you are ok with korean/malaysia stuff you could buy a yom 2000 wira for abt 10 and if you bargain hard for your budget as well. If you are going for jap cars, i guess you can find a 1994 ish corolla hatch or a mazda 323/familia sixth generation. If you are looking for a "well known" model like sunny or corolla you can get a much older model for that price.


Go For Lancer CB 1 94/95 brandnew car.I had 19-6xxx 95 accident free car it for three years & it is a good car.I sold it for 970/= 4 months ago.Fuel consumption around 12km with AC.15km for long trips.


Hi All,
Thanks a lot for all of your valuable replies. I think Mazda 323, Corolla Hatch, Tercel are in possible list. How abot Sonata? Have heard its soo greedy for fuel......can someone advice me on that please. Would it be a better option?
I saw an advertisement for Maruti Esteem..........but think it would not be easy to sell.....same for Proton WAJA even though its a good car. I dnt know much about Lancer CB3a.......but I saw some advertisements.


Dude, if want a Jap you will have to either increase your budget to 11-12 lacks or go down on the age 1988
Maruti 800 is a lousy car but i dont think anyone has lost money on them, for your budget you will have economical reliable A-B motering
This will be better option as you are planning to sell in one year. l


Bimmer E30.
MINIACE



