

You can never change your life until you change something that you do daily,Being an early riser is such habit you should follow in your daily routine.
What Is Early Rising ?
Early rising is not just waking up early,it's waking up with energy and prepared for the day.Many people wake up early
but with stress,lack of energy and not feeling good.
Early riser is the one who wakes up with energy,empowered,enthusiastic,enliven and enlighten.
Why Should Be An Early Riser ?
If you wake up early you will have more time, more energy and more performance in the Day.
you will have more of the day so you can make more of it.
5 Things To Do To Become An Early Riser
1.Make An Evening Routine For A Productive Morning
- Don't use your phone the last hour you want to sleep
The rays and light from the phones are program to keep you awake,engaged and alert.
-Don't sleep with the clothes you wore all day change in to a night cloth before sleep.
Because your body has memory and your clothes have energy.
-Eat two hours before your bed
So that you can allow your body to digest and relax.
2. Make An Affirmation
Make your mind that you will wake up feeling focused and energized.
3. Make Reminders
Prepare the Schedule and do list For tomorrow.
4.Let It Go
let go of all the pain and stress you went through in the day and make your mind relax to get a deep sleep
5.why Do You Want To Get Up Early
Discover the goal for which you want to wake up early
How to Be An Early Riser ?
- Don't make drastic Changes
start slowly,just wake up 10-15 minutes earlier than usual,get used to it for four days,then cut back another 15 minutes.Do this gradually until you get to your goal time.
- Allow yourself to sleep earlier
if you sleep earlier you will get the enough amount of sleep so you can wake up early without any stress.
- Put your alarm clock far from your bed
if it's far from your bed you have to get out of your bed to shut it off.By then you're up.Now you just have to stay up.
- Have a good reason
Set something to do in the early morning that's important.this will motivate you to get up early.
Benefits of being an early riser
1.Quietude: The early morning hours are so peaceful and quiet
2.Amazing Start: you can start your day without any rush
3.Sunrise: You can experience the greatest feast of nature
4.Exercise: Morning exercise is more healthier than evening exercise
5.Breakfast: you get the time to have your breakfast on time,Doctors advice to have breakfast before 9:00 am
6.Productivity: Mornings are the most productive time of the day.
Research says that 90%of the most successful Executives in the world woke up before 6:00 am and 50% of self made millionaires woke up 3 hours before their actual work day start.
If you wake up early you will have more of your life to live,so be an early riser and live more of your life !
Share your Feed backs on Being an early riser !
Guys,if you have more tips to become an early riser ,share it here.



1. You’re not passionate about it
If serial entrepreneurs have only one secret of success, it’s passion. Explaining “how to know you’re building the wrong company,” Damien Patton emphasizes one thing: the absence of passion.
Patton is not alone. Jeff Bezos gives a directive advice while reviewing the secret behind Amazon’s astonishing rise: “Never chase the hot thing, you need to position yourself and wait for the wave. And the way you do that is you pick something you’re passionate about.” Obviously, running a business without passion makes it impossible to confront the inevitable challenges hence failure.
However, it’s not absurd to look outside the passion corridor. But must you weave the business into your ardour? Absolutely. Virgin CEO Richard Branson did exactly that when he launched Virgin Money in 1995.
2. The business is not problem-solving
Coming up with the right business idea is one thing. Validating it is another. This means your idea, passion aside, must match consumer needs. So, be sure to ask yourself: What existing problem does it solve? What vacuum does it fill? If you have a clear, concise and compelling response, then it’s great. If not, it’s not.
Innovation isn’t for all, but a business must offer a distinctive value, at least by solving a problem quite effectively. Uber, for instance, solves an existing problem by transforming taxi service with a location-based app. Today, the company thrives as it meets the needs of two groups simultaneously: riders and drivers.
“If you show people the problems and you show people the solutions, they will be moved to act,” says Bill Gates. If not, your business is waiting to crumble.
3. Your business idea wows no one
Finally, and in what may probably give a clearer assurance, pitch your idea to other people and accept the feedback in good faith. Either you trust your guts or not, this is essential. A great idea will puzzle no one.
Take this from me: if all the feedbacks are thumbs-down, it’s the wrong business. Those you shared your ideas with are potential customers. As such, their judgement goes a long way in determining the market need for your product and, ultimately, your success.



[IMG]A personal portfolio can be considered as an evidence to organize all your accomplishments throughout the life. Most probably a portfolio is containing a sample of your works such as the various things you have done, experiences, achievements, the things you have learnt and your accomplishments.
In the journey of your life, you should create it on what you are passionate about. So as a step for that, an online portfolio can be considered. It presents the details about you which will be helpful for the job seekers. But most probably a less amount of people are maintaining their own portfolio.Now let's see why you should maintain a portfolio to highlight yourself among the others.
1. To add an extra value to your job application.
Beyond your resume and the cover letter, this will be an extra thing which will help you to market yourself.
By this, you are getting the ability to show more about you other than things you are including in your resume.
Also, it will be an evidence as it is containing photos, videos, and links.
2. Organize everything on a single page.
It’s easier rather than handling documents for each and everything. An online portfolio is a single place where everyone can easily access. So all the professional materials and information about you can be easily accessible online. You just have to give the link for someone who wants to get to know about you.
3. Serve as a confidence booster
An online portfolio is wonderful confidence booster are you agree? When all your skills are arranged in a order it can
easily reflect the professional growth of you other than in a document. Also, it makes easier to identify the fields where you should improve in yourself.
4.Increase the Visibility
A portfolio can be created with different attractive methods including various attractive features other than a resume or a document. When you are facing for an interview or applying for an interview almost all the applicants are applying for the job with their resumes. So if you are able to apply for a job with your portfolio you can be unique among other persons as the portfolio increase the visibility of you for the interview panel.
So finally I have to ask you why are you still waiting to create a portfolio? Start it now.
It will help you to market yourself in this competitive job market. How to create a portfolio?
What are the things you have to consider when you are building a portfolio?
I’ll just give a small idea for you.
1. First, be thoughtful about what you are going to include,
Don't make it overwhelming and make it easy to navigate. Make it simple.
2. Show you unique capabilities in the highlighted way.
3. Give your self-introduction smoothly in your own words.
There don’t forget to include your key skills and give a stronger sense out to show who you are.
4. Keep everything organized.
Don’t make it messy. Make it easier for the viewer to understand by looking at it.
5. Update it in an attractive way.
Don’t forget to include the details of your accomplishments and experiences with photos and all in a well-organized and attractive manner. Make it to give an idea at a glance.
Hope you will create a fantastic online personal portfolio and take the advantage to market yourself in the job market.



Could A Country Survive Without Borrowing A Debt? The Answer Is Certainly No!

Even the richest country in the world relies for a debt over another country. This might sound a little awkward but it truly does!Every second, it seems, someone somewhere in the world takes on more debt, it could be a country or even an individual citizen. A government debt can be simply defined as the value of buns and other debt securities which is intentionally issued by the national government itself and will be taken back by its full faith and credit. 

 



Why Do Governments Borrow Money? Of Course,



The recent terrorist attack that happened on the 21st of April 2019, was a devastating moment for the entire country. An unexpected turn! The explosion took place on the Holy Easter Sunday where a recording of three luxury hotels and churches in the capital Colombo and across Sri Lanka was targeted in a series of interrelating suicidal bombings. With an unendurable loss of almost 253 citizens with 500 more of the injured .During the explosions at least 42 foreign nationals were killed .
This year Sri Lanka seemed to hit the first position in traveller's spots according to Lonely Planet in 2019. Sri Lanka holds the third largest foreign exchange earner with an income of over $4.4 billion the previous year, and 11.6% from 2017. Hence, a fundamental revenue of $ 5 billion and three million tourist arrivals was anticipated this year.
As stated by, ''The Hotels Association of Sri Lanka (THASL) President Sanath Ukwatte, is estimating a massive loss of $ 1.5 billion in tourism earnings this year, especially from the hotels. With an estimation of 135,000 to 150,000 employees are straight employed in the hotel industry.
Due to the spate of terrorist attack, The Sri Lankan Institute of Tourism and Hotel Management (SLITHM) are unable to provide an accurate statistics on the cancellations of hotel reservations.
Government's forthcoming support:
The tourist's contribution to Sri Lanka's GDP growth this year exceeded a percentage of 11. Examining the impact of the Easter Sunday attacks over the individual sectors. The Government will investigate and add measures to support furthermore the destructive situation of the country.
The count of death from the strategic Easter Sunday nightmare's attack was a terrible disaster for the whole nation. The loss from tourism revenue and hotels has risen from past counts.
Catholic churches in Western province cancels Sunday mass over new bomb panics:
This unexpected attack feared all the entire citizen's, which made the Sri Lankan Roman Catholic Churches to cancel all the Sunday Mass services due to the fears of new bomb attacks. Particularly the mass that is going to be called off on the 5th of May. President Sirisena has made a statement that there could be possibilities of Foreign Masterminds behind this huge unforeseen scenario.
The Social Media ban elevation:
The Sri Lankan government imposed a ban on Social Media platforms around 2 pm right after the attack with the intention to stop rumours getting spread all over Sri Lanka.
The ban on the Social Media Channels such as Facebook, Viber & Whatsapp immediately right after the horrific explosions might bring a huge negative impact on businesses as well.
More attacks to approach:
Officials have warned that there could be a further forthcoming wave of attacks. More resources have further noticed that people dressed in military uniforms using a vehicle could be implied in the attacks.
Furthermore, the state has warned that there might be waves of unexpected terrorist attacks with no little warning, targeting markets, hospitals, hotels, places of worship, airports & public areas.
After the civil war came to an end,we had 10 years of peaceful life, once again Sri Lanka has been pushed to the feet of war and fear because of this terrorists attacks .In the tourism industry when something devastating happens the reaction becomes very fast and effective,at the same time the recovery is also very fast. Sri Lanka is now on its off season so we can expect a recovery before the season time start.
However, The entire citizens are expecting that Sri Lanka will bounce back to become a stable economy soon, giving a high growth opportunity for foreign investors (FDI) and an attractive destination for tourists.
What do you guys think on this, do you reckon a massive changeover after the tremendous damage will be made by the Sri Lankan government with the help of overseas?
Beyond everything, we are all Sri Lankan's and it's time for us to stand together as one soul.



