


Confidence helps me to handle setbacks and failure in my life.How does confidence help you  in your life? share your own thoughts with us.


As you said confidence helps me to face my failures bravely, boost my self-esteem, and allow me to try new things in my life.


If you have confidence. It says you that  you can do it. So confidence help to do anything. If you drop confidence, you can't do anything successfully.I said it  from my experience.


You are right Janushan,Our confidence make us believe that we can do the things that we want to do and it will help us to achieve our goals.




Have you heard about the many benefits of yoga but do not know how to get started?  If you are new to yoga, you may have this misconception in your head that yoga pose is difficult to achieve. You may also be worried about coordinating the beautiful art of inhalation and exhalation while practicing some attitude. 





Yoga consists of 300 poses and it is certainly not easy to understand all this. If you accidentally get complicated while leaving the simplest behind, it may seem impossible. So start by selecting them simpler, keep yourself neat with practice and let your body adjust to the increasing levels of difficulty of yoga poses with a steady flow.


I never know that there are nearly 300 poses in yoga. Can you suggest me some simple posts in yoga?




Education is the most powerful weapon which can use to change the world. As a Sri Lanka’s citizen we are enjoying the benefits from government. Until Advanced level we are studying at school with  not only  free buildings and teacher but also free books, free uniform, free sports instruments etc. After advanced level also there plenty of universities, Technical colleges, Open universities, Training college providing free education with incentive money for poor students.





Sri Lanka's citizens had an adult literacy rate of 96.3% in 2015. We are privileged to enjoy the free education with good standards.





Share your thoughts here!


True Arthi, As  Sri Lanka's citizens we are fortunate to have the free education and that's the reason for the high literacy rate in our country, also we have the best education system in Asia.




Silicon Valley is known for its spirit of innovation. Home to many of the world’s leading technology companies, the drive to innovate runs in the region’s veins. Leaders of five enterprising cities in the region offered tips to replicate their success.




How can i create the best Word Press design anyone give me suggestion of best plugins to create stunning  web design?




Hello Friends!



Do you know how well your blog is performing? If you don't know about this, check this blog, Here  Nail Patel explained very clearly to check your blog performance: 



If you have any doubts, you can ask here.


Thanks for sharing this blog here Katren, As a blog writer it's really helpful to me.




In my life "my happiest day is my birthday" The reason is only because of my birth I got amazing parents who I would take care for life long. that is my life long goal. So guys Which is the unforgettable happiest day in your life?


My 21st Birthday is the most happiest day in my life till now. In this day all my relatives,friends and family really treated me as princess I was showered with lots of wishes and blessings, those blessings are priceless because most of the elders who blessed me that day are not any more to bless me physically but I believe they are the angel guardians for me.




Human rights mean giving independence to every individual in the world to live their lives with their own terms and conditions. But today's world human rights are broken,what are the reasons for this?


There is two main reasons for the break of human rights, first one is humans are not fully aware about the rights the have as individuals and the second reason is some people taking advantages of their human rights.




Found this Expo Rail time table details from their promotion page, If you are planning to experience the beauty of the hill station, city life and beaches try this in weekends or SL Holiday times, You will be amazed with the views and the hospitality from the Expo Rail











Colombo – Kandy

Daily: 07:00 – 09:30

Rates: One Way 1300 LKR / Two Way 2200 LKR





Colombo – Badulla Podi Manike

Saturday, Monday, Thursday: 05:55 – 16:00

Rates: One Way 2250 LKR / Two Way 3950 LKR





Colombo – Badulla Udarata Manike

(Tuesday, Friday, Sunday): 09:45 – 19:25

Rates: One Way 2250 LKR / Two Way 3950 LKR





Colombo – Vavuniya 

Daily: 16:20 – 21:10

Rates: One Way 1600 LKR / Two Way 3200 LKR





Colombo – Trincomalee

Thursday, Saturday, Monday: 21:00 – 05:10

Rates: One Way 1900 LKR / Two Way 3800 LKR





Kandy – Colombo

Daily: 15:00 – 17:30

Rates: One Way 1300 LKR / Two Way 2200 LKR





Badulla – Colombo Podi Manike

(Saturday, Tuesday, Friday): 08:50 – 19:35

Rates: One Way 2250 LKR / Two Way 3950 LKR





Badulla – Colombo Udarata Manike 

(Wednesday, Saturday, Monday): 05:45 – 15:40

Rates: One Way 2250 LKR / Two Way 3950 LKR





Vavuniya – Colombo

Daily: 05:45 – 10:25

Rates: One Way 1600 LKR / Two Way 3200 LKR





Trincomalee – Colombo 

Friday, Sunday, Tuesday: 19:30 – 04:05

Rates: One Way 1900 LKR / Two Way 3800 LKR


Thanks for sharing!


Yup it's reduce our time to struggle with browsers when plan a train travel.Thank you.


Thank you for your listing. I am gonna enjoy the beauty of Sri Lanka by Expo rail.




This question may sound awkward, but it is a very empowering one . In my point of view, When you think about the end of life, it gives you awakening  ideas about how you should live your life right now. what do you think about this? share your thoughts here.


Hi Vaishnavi,



You are right it's really an awakening question, When I die I want people to say or remember me as a kind and helpful person and I am working on it. So How would like to be remembered when you die?




Hello Friends,



I would like to make iOS and Android apps. But I don't have any knowledge in it. Can someone explain me how can I create iOS and Android apps?



Thank You.







much interesting! it's good grub for our creativity but it's not a free game.


I'll post the free download link very soon.




Many of our  practices and experiences contribute to our work. If we want to achieve anything, we first need to do it. If we practice very well, we can increase our productivity.What do you think how does our practice and experience influence our productivity?


Practice is a best way to increase our productivity, improve our skills and learn a lot, so we shouldn't stop our practice. if you don't know anything no problem, practice for that you can learn that soon. if you are a hard worker with practice you will learn how to do it in an easy way then you'll get a best experience so you can easily do your work in short time. 



Don't stop practice, we always need to practice anything.


Practice increase our ability to do things and it will automatically improve our productivity.Experience make us to take wise decision so we make better decision to increase our productivity


yes, tripidea you are right. If we want to increase our productivity definitely we have to Practice for that. Because Practice is a good thing. If we Practice hard we can archive our goals successfully.


Yes, can you explain to me? What kind of practice do i want to do to increase my productivity?


For example if you are a content writer, then you have to write more and more,If you are practice to write more content in a short time that will increase your productivity. Hope you understood,If  not please ask me.




We all have some or other kinds of hobbies which we love to do. Like I love to do paper quelling in my leisure time, It makes me more patient and increase my creativity.Other than that hobbies give us more benefits like make us take break ,boost our eustress and give us new challenges. So guys what are the benefits you have gained from your hobbies?


Hobbies are  must have activities in our fastest life, because in our lifestyle, we need relaxation for our body and brain we must have a hobby otherwise we can't live tomorrow. So choose a hobby for your happy life.


I am totally agree with you trip idea, If our busy lifestyle we should have a hobby to relax ourselves.other than relaxation what are the other benefits you gain from your hobbies?


Hello Bhavya!

Some of the hobbies mostly improve our  the activity of mind. Here I suggest some of the benefits of having hobbies.

Reduce our stress

Increase our mental health

Improve our creativity

We can loosen up our-self

clear our mind


Thanks for sharing these benefits Roshani, You are right hobbies help to clear our mind and make us feel refresh. What are the hobbies do you have?




Contents are very important in a website.Currently I am doing the content part  in web designing. I would like to know more about content adding on a website development. Can someone explain about website content?


You are right, Most of the website attract their audience by the images but the contents can improve that images and increase attractions. 

If you see an  image without content in a website you can feel something missing there, so content is very important in a website designing.


There is a saying "Content is the King" Which means content is very important for a website. You can make you Content more attractive by adding images,videos and info graphic




I am very passionate when it comes to public speaking. But there are people who always trolling me I'm overacting and blah blah negative points. on that time, I feel very sad and unable to do it further. In my earlier life, I was cried so many times, but when I well-understood the people attitude and behavior, after that, I can  easily overcome  that kind of situations. Now I  can proudly say that  I can manage whatever the situation is. but sometimes I feel very bad when someone criticize me regarding my speech. Who are facing this level, please take this note. Here are some  good lessons From TED talks that will help you  to master  your public speaking skill:


Hi Katren,



Thanks for sharing this video, I think public speaking is the skill that every one of us should learn, as it help us to voice our thoughts confidently infront of people. Thanks for sharing this TED Talks videos.




Sophia is the world first Artificial intelligence lady introduced by Hanson Robotics in 2015. She is the first robot who got citizenship. She is Saudi Arabia citizen. She can live with the people and she can serve , entertain, teach and even help to the people. 



let's meet her!


Hey sis!



This was really an amazing video thanks for sharing. I couldn't seriously leave without commenting. Just now came to know that Sophia is the first robot citizen in Saudi Arabia!


This is very amazing, what do you  think if human create more robots like shopia what will happen?

Is it good for humanity?


It’s a hypothetical question because it has good and bad effects. I think you watch Enthiran movie its not about the robot it’s depends on how humans use it.


Yeah, When I got to know about her I really excited. she look like a real girl. Future we may get a friend like Sophia. Let’s see!


This is exciting and at the same time it is scary. is it true that it answer only programmed questions?


Totally agree with you,  For the experiment sake we shouldn't create our own enemy


Really amazing video, I know about this already, But, I am watching this for very first time. Thank you for sharing with us.




Hello Friends,



Our society push us to do the things which we hate to do.

Sometimes we have to do them for our family.





What are the things society expect you to do which you hate to do?


Finishing my degree which is totally irrelevant to my job.... 😞😞


The very first thing is to make me behave "like a girl". I like being the way I am. I won't be the made-up doll in functions or answer every unfair stupid questions of people who never care about me or my family.

I am a human. But people insist on forcing me to meet the characteristics that they consider to be womanly. Am I not a human? Don't I have the freedom to embrace my quirkiness? Why do I have to pretend to be the silent, meek girl? If that's not me, what is the use of pretending to be one? 



I'm sure almost every parent asks their daughter not to laugh aloud, not to speak loud, to sit without hurting the chair, walk without sound etc. And I have faced reprimands from my family and relatives for not behaving like a girl. Well, I know I am a girl. Is that my problem if others can't see it?



