



The FO is under the Pakistan Govt., ultimately the PM/President runs the show. So Ms Mazari where is the criticism directed? All of these Govt., departments should follow one guideline.


Again the same diatribe to divert public attention. You can't care for Pakistani people who are suffering under your government,how will you take care of Kashmiris.


FO under a minister which belongs to PTI... Foreign office follows the policy of government


Why in Pakistan one Minister interferes in the work of other ministries?Has Human Right Ministry established their each and every goal?But No our ministers love talking more then doing.


Are there two different governments working in Islamabad. 

One ministry telling the other ministry is not doing a good job. 

Strange very strange.


What kind of credibility does Pakistan have in the world? Have you thought about that?


Well said Shirin Mazari.

Our Ambassadors and Foreign Office have to get up from their comfort zones and do the job properly.

Shirin Mazari has said everything correctly.


If bound by principle then support Taiwan as a country and the world will start to listen. Same reasoning applies to all countries when it comes to their interest.


Is this the result of Saudi visit by the Army chief?


They have let down Pakistan too, sooner you realise the better you will be.


Incompetence can be seen at all levels.


How about working on improving rights of Pakistanis in the provinces we have. You have the most miserable record among all the ministries.


This is unprecedented. Incompetent ministers in the same cabinet blaming each other for what seems also like collective lack of competence under IK


Sorry! Who illegally occupied Kashmir?


There is hardly any option left except self destruction.


Seems like she wants the FO portfolio


No minister is working for Pakistan people


In the end there is One power above only, that will free Kashmiris in IIOJK and no one can stop it.


No, we all are actually proud of them


Is there a legal occupation? If so AJK can be called as Pakistan legally occupied Kashmir?


Will FM resign?


Who let Pakistanis down? Some time think about Pakistanis also.


Who is illegally occupying Kashmir Pakistan ? India? Or both?


Brave lady. She should be made Foreign Minister.


So many intellectuals in single party PTI. Rsult? you can see now.


Why Indians and Pakistanis cannot move together considering the ancient civilization inherited by both.Let us forgot all religious difference, together India and Pakistan will be strong nation, nobody can ignore.


Whether they are in election campaign or incumbent, they would always blame PLM-N. 

You guys are given 5 year term. Stop blaming game.


Saudia Abrabia has friends everywhere.


Infighting.


Frustration of the highest order...


FM of Pakistan is resigning,it looks


Till yesterday, Pakistan was the clear winner


You got it on map, issue resolved.


“Had our FO and those institutions who make policies on Kashmir taken it up further, "

Clear reference to the PM!


Our diplomats just make speeches at different forums

well   actually your PM also does only that!


The FO ‘rejects’ this statement


@Oxxxxxxx,  India


The war has started between FO and PM office. Operation minus one has commenced.


Pakistani politicians cannot do anything except making many speeches.


@Zxx,  Given up all hope??


Arab world still needs help of our nuclear capability. We have pacts to give full protection in the event of war.  That’s why Israel is making peace with one by one. They can’t afford war with a nuclear giant.


United we stand, divided we fall.


@Rxxxx,  'Arab world still needs help of our nuclear capability'



UAE is a nuclear nation now and Saudi will be soon. Pakistan is not required any more.


@Rxxi Sankar Katragadda,  'Who invaded kashmir when it was ruled by the king in 1947'



Pakistan.


Seems like she is eyeing foreign ministry portfolio in the next cabinet shakeup.


@Bxxxxxxx,  Never!


@Zxx,  excellent hope but they are already free and happy





Could you please name one country, except China, Turkey and Malaysia, that applauded Imran Khan's efforts to put Kashmir on the Global Platform? What did they say?


Pakistan news is always interesting and thrilling.


@A Khan,  There you are


@Rxxxxxx,  Credibility in the eyes of whom?


Who made her the minister!!!!


bravo ! looks like everybody is working independently ! one hand does not know what other is doing! except of course making public speeches.


@Sxxxxxx,  Wait and see! its not that simple!


@Lxxxxx,  everyone know that FM is good for nothing. He just want luxurious life with public money.


@Rxxxx,  are you still living in 20th century? War is not an option in 21st century. The countries have too much to lose if they go into war. You have nuclear warheads, still nobody in the world cares what you have to say. Economy is the power.


She is so right,Honest opinion.


Remove SMQ and make her the FM


Who is running the government? Government is responsible for policy not bureaucrats


@Sxxxxx,  Yes, exactly, our PM is also like your diplomats but at least our people and government do the talking.


It is strange that a cabinet minister in Pakistan criticises her own FO and PM


No words on China crimes on Muslims..........


Why hasn't the FO rejected it yet?


If she feels she should be given  SMQ position to do a good job.


@Mxxxxx,  That is what MBS has demanded.


@Wxxxxxd dragon ,  Pakistan.


@vxxxx,  You will see Azad Kashmir Azad in real sense, .




Excellent work IK and team.


All gas, no real content.


If its applicable when their dues are settled, then why this press conference. Do it then. Wasting time talking of hypothetical savings and ideas.


Cut costs but not cutting down on corruption?


Publish  the report for general public.


Please don't do as to whatever the Govt. does the price goes up.wheat , sugar ,medicines are all an example.let us live.


We will not be fooled by more rhetoric. Waiting for when I see even a single  difference in my electricity bill.






Nobody is going to follow this.




So Pak will now start paying it's debts??


worriesome sign, it looks people are packing and returning home. As no where in world people income is moving up


People losing jobs are returning with their money and/or sending money to help family back home. The data should be related to how many came back to know if this will sustain.


Sir Pakistani people is helping economy as always but when you and your government going to help economy and people of Pakistan?


someone tell the PM to wake up and smell the rotten roses. This 2.7B is not coming again as it belongs to the unfortunate who lost their jobs in MENA region and are now coming back home. 

Time will tell how much reduction it will be in coming months.


Every patriotic Pakistani home and abroad loves and supports the sincere Imran Khan.


Superb. Keep going Pakistan. Haters keep burning.


IK will get us out and  will  make Pakistan great again, pay all debts, get back IOK  from India.


@dxxx,  agree


Remittances are keeping Pakistan alive - what will happen if they ever end ?


Good job guys. Its payback time


If this would have been a trend changer event currency markets would have reacted positively and rupee must have jumped 5-10 percent. Wait for few next month's before celebrations.


People coming back to home with their whole savings, it won't remain the same for the next few months. Government is so happy what is their contribution for this?


Other than remittances sent by overseas (and I am one) what exactly had the government and the  general Pakistanis had done for Pakistan. Is remittances from overseas and their dependence a part of the general economic plan?


The manpower initiative of PMIK with SA and UAE bearing fruit


This trend is because of the fact that as most of the Pakistanis have lost their job in foreign countries. They were stuck there for 4 long months. now they are able to travel back they have started sending their savings. Therefore, this trend may go down in the coming months of 2021.


That means you should spend less during religious events from now on ?


Remittances are for families to help fight Covid and its consequences (shortfalls) and those who lost jobs and businesses overseas.Hope Government will help them resettle??


If increase in remittances is a point to brag about by your leader than you know where your country is headed. Also the remittances increase is because of shifting of large amount accumulated wealth by workers because of pandemic. It will drop down harder than it rose in next coming months


@dxxx,  Also for India


Now PTI will show this as an achievement.


Do the senders have more confidence in this crisis that their money is safer?


IK is acting as though $2.7 billion has been deposited in the treasury's account! This money is spread across individuals. Each receiving only a small portion. Remember the relatives sending the money are mostly only blue collared labourers.  I wonder if the lack of education in pakistan is the reason their government openly plays with figures and statistics with none being the wiser.


All the laid-off employees from Middle East are coming back Home. It’s not a good development for Pakistan as this will be an one time development. And now the main source of Pakistan’s Foreign Exchange will dry-up very soon. Imran Khan should take note.




Only military leaders,  Not MBS?


Excellent. COAS, like Imran Khan is a great son of the soil.


Who drove COAS from the airport to the meeting?


What else can be expected? Shah Mehmood was right to demand OIC on Kashmir Issue.


Please brief the FM about the norms and how to handle ties with the Kingdom.


@Hxx,  

Surrender Modi.


@Oxxxxr Singh,  Kashmir is not a part of India


Where is Mr Shah Mehmood Qureshi when it comes to foreign relations.??


India is unhappy with the ties


So, what changed? Who needs to train whom?


@Sxxh K,  yes he has met with MBS


Pakistan will have choose eventually either Turkey or Saudi..


@Hxx,  An ordinary citizen of SA.


@Exxm Aziz,  or otherwise?


@Sxxd ,You’re very right.


@Oxxxxr Singh,  none of your business


Whole world is watching this meeting!


@Hxx,  driver


Good luck facing MBS!


Interested to know if our deferred oil program extended or not and also if saudi writes off our balance 2 billion dollars loan because of COAS visit...


Pakistan assured of it's service to SA?


The question is, will Turkey be able to foot the bills for Pakistan in future as it's own economy is tanked. China for sure will stop as soon as it's land grab motives are complete


@sxxx,  who told you that?


@Hxx,  A driver.


Hope to get the credit-line extended.


Will they announce the result of the meeting?


A photograph is worth thousand words.


What was the outcome.


@Sxxxxxx,  in your dreams?




He won't be back in a 100 years- sadly for those who tried finding a Mandela in him.


What a mess!


Is anybody surprised?


Old friends /beneficiaries look after you


Nawaz will emerge as a clear winner. Justice will prevail.


NAB, is only publicity / advertising, department/cell of corrupt politicians of Pakistan and doing this job very well. What a unfortunate waste of public money? Is there anyone who can stop this waste of money and time with out any result, only free publicity of corupt politicians.


I hope these remarks are not sarcastic. Everyone knows who ask a guarantee of someone life in court.


Best PM Pakistan ever had




It’s heartbreaking to see innocent children are still suffering with this devastating disease, all due to incompetence and poor management by Pakistan! Wonder what PMIK will think now if Indians tweet, “we are fortunate to have eradicated polio unlike unfortunate Pakistan”!! Think before you tweet!




This is the height of our border security check. we should have arrested 1000 in our area and around 70 in Iran .  Actually bribery has rooted deep in our society unless some strict disciplinary action is taken against  our border security management we will  remain insulting our country pride.


Create awareness in the public that it is very risky to go illegally cross border.


Pakistan high ups makes money from doing business of human trafficking! Don’t blame others




