



Rigging the numbers, from elections to budgets to corona count, is your speciality


Tiger team is working hard at it.


@Sxxxxx,  we need at least 10 years of lockdown only then some positive development will happen


very positive news


It could also meant that patients were / are not able to reach hospitals or labs for testing due to restrictions.Drawing correct conclusions is important. DC needed to be more prudent.


A analysis that is a joke. When there is a lock down there is no testing either. So how can you say it is reduced if it is not reported.


Probably clearing the way of more lock down




One can only speculate if a nourishing list of ex-buddies, say like Jahangir Tareen, had anything to do with this.


Selfish greedy politicians.


"According to him, one of the lists contains names of 18 people who have been recovered so far while the other contains the names of about 500 people who have gone missing since August 2018 when the PTI signed the agreement with the BNP-M"



a sad reality. 

very unfortunate


PTI is being exposed now.


The  services for Baloch people?

Exactly.


@Txxxxx,  glad that delhi also influenced on your internal politics.


These  always responsible for Baluchistan. They never give benefit to their people. They are main culprit.


@Fxxxxxxx,  

Caught again. Stop shaming India here.


Handful of NA members and are trying to show that they are the King makers. What a shame


Real face of PTI


The end is near PTI. Your slim majority is fading away.


PTI can not be blackmailed.


Corrupt politicians


@Cxxxxxz Khan,  Giving up power require courage


He said the truth.


Truth only. care more for others less for own people


This fellow always creates trouble, when they go hungry




Yes I agree, it needs to be made stronger more meaningful.


Selectors would ideally want it shelved. But, they will also take what they can get. For now.


The emperor with no clothes. The people can see you finally.


Playing politics, blaming others, thinking that you are unique in world. you done every thing better than whole world. 

stop it accept reality you totally failed on all front. you even did not listen to the doctors.


Mr. Prime Minister of Pakistan Imran Ahmad Khan Niazi,



" all powers are enjoyed by CM who has become a kind of dictator "



You are 100% right.



And you have studied 18th amendment thoroughly which has been imposed during the most corrupt and criminal PPP government in 2010 with the cooperation of PML-N, JUI, ANP and their associates.



Sindh is the worst province in Pakistan for decades due to this 18th amendment in compare to the other provinces.



The wrong and dictatorial clauses must be changed immediately by the ordinance of the President of Pakistan. 



Please don't listen to the corrupts, criminals, cronies, culprits, money-launderers, mal-administrators, openers of  (fake and unknown) accounts, etc., and trust them. 



These elements are not for welfare, progress, development, education, health, transport, etc.



Enough is enough. 



The funds must be given to the local governments and local bodies directly in all the provinces.


Authoritarian regime at centre


IK is a visionary. Best statesman ever in the history of mankind.


Cat is out of the bag now ! PTI started this controversy of 18th amendment few months back was a planned move. PTI should know that Nawaz Sharif did all the projects with 18th amendment intact. So if he can, then every gov. can. So its no excuse, to not work.


Do review it and give more  power at town-level. By giving power at grass-root level, democracy will strengthen and people of Pakistan will be served better. Currently, Chief Ministers--the rightly called dictators are serving their own and their party interests more than the interests of the people who voted for them.


The 18th amendment should be abolished completely, as it provides shelter to the corrupt.


@Rxxxxxy Bites,  Really?


If pm literally wants to help provinces, then why he's not collaborating with their CM's.

When it comes to his own interest, he and his lobby criticise 18th amendment.


What a Shame


18th amendment should be demolish. Sindh is hostage to PPP.


The 18th amendment is a tool for massive corruption and zero accountability!


I still remember the local government rules formulated by KP government led by PTI after 2013 elections in which Local Government representatives were planned to be given  maximum powers. However, when PTI did not win majority of seats in LG elections in KP, they scraped the rules and empowered their MPAs.


18th amendment must be terminated for the well being of Pakistan.


instead of calling for its withdrawal PTI should propose a 19th which corrects the lacunae and endure further devolution to local government with constitutional guarantee. If ppp opposes it its logic for defending 18th as a proponent of devolution would be exposed.


The lips move, the hand gestures but voice of someone else. Strings!


Beneficiaries get 1200 rupees, about $10, minimum salary per hour in US is $14. 

Even Pakistanis don’t earn that much? If that’s true then life in Pakistan is terrible.


18th amendment gives guarantee for unity of Pakistan. All political parties of Pakistan unanimously passed it. Now selected gov. want to mess with it. Perhaps last chance for IK's survival


@AxxM  AKBAR ,  Well said. Completely agreed.


This 18th amendment has damaged not to federation but provinces too specially Sindh where CM acts like a dictator. Imran Khan must initiate process of changing this amendment expediently so that devolution of power could be given to local bodies as 18th amendment says.


Agree ...the TRUE spirit of the 18th. amendment needs to be implemented.


We need a local government with strict accountability. Otherwise many Local govt representatives are some of most corrupt public office holders. If there is no accountability, billions of rupees shall not be wasted.


The veil lifted from many recent events after this statement.


Any amendment for the Karachi due rights would be welcome.


Instead of criticizing the 18th amendment PM should abolish all the ministries and special assistants where money is being given to provinces. Force the provinces to devolve the power at lower level as per the 18th amendment. I don't see any plan to do abolish useless ministries at federal level. Not a single letter is being written to any province by FG that 18th amendment is not fully implemented. Only useless speeches in the media.


The local bodies was only practices during Gen Musharaf's time. The earlier and present government are using it as an excuse.


@AxxM  AKBAR ,  true.


I wonder if he knows what’s the 18th amendment.


Then next time don't abuse parliament by ordinances.


RIP democracy


And you need to review your absolute failure past 4 months as an elected PM.


blame l, blame and blame.


Only because the Sindh is the only province they haven’t got power share in, he is calling the CM there a dictator. Others are just following orders from our visionary leader. 



The only problem with that is that we need to look at those other provinces where CMs are not dictators.  Have they achieved anything special?  No.


Dangerous game. What happened to south Punjab province? Only talk, it will never happen. PTI has to prove its credibility in sugar and flour cases after their failure in recovering money from Political leaders.


Please take some loans to boost economy


IK himself is not maintaining health and safety rules. He is talking without a face musk.


He is 100 percent right.


@Jxxm barabar,  Modi is authoritarian and fascist.


@Yxr Hingorjo,  because CM has biggest ego on the planet.


@Txxxh Teller,  for the corrupted in Sind, going to loose out on the loot.


@Txxxxx,  voice of reason.


Do it quickly


2018 need to reviewed first. How you become PM? How Pakistan Economy got destroyed after your PMship


@Pxxxxx,  what is that? corruption?


@Axx,  he knows everything about you.


@Axx,  was it created in India?


@nxxx,  corruption in the name of democracy.


@Fxxxxxh Munir ,  go there you will be surprised.


The 18th is wonderful legislation which needs to be fully implemented in letter & spirit with functioning coordination between provinces & the centre & further devolution to local government.

Please do not damage it. Pakistanis cannot afford self harming government.


@Fxxxxxh Munir , 



Mr. Farrukh Munir, 



" Only because the Sindh is the only province they haven’t got power share in, he is calling the CM there a dictator. Others are just following orders from our visionary leader. 



The only problem with that is that we need to look at those other provinces where CMs are not dictators.  Have they achieved anything special?  No.  "



Wrong. 



All the chief ministers have absolute powers and like the dictators. 



But amongst the chief ministers the chief minister of Sindh of PPP is proved and certified corrupt. 



As provincial minister of finance of Sindh he has done corruptions in the shape of money-laundering and openings of  (fake and unknown) accounts. 



Nobody can deny this.


@Rxxxxxy Bites, 



Mr. Reality Bites, 



" The 18th amendment should be abolished completely, as it provides shelter to the corrupt. "



I am also of your opinion. 



Not only shelter to corrupts also to criminals.


@Jxxxx, 



Mr. Jamki, 



" 18th amendment gives guarantee for unity of Pakistan. All political parties of Pakistan unanimously passed it. Now selected gov. want to mess with it. Perhaps last chance for IK's survival. " 



Not true. 



The corrupt and criminal PPP, PML-N, JUI, ANP and their associates passed this 18th amendment for crimes and corruptions. 



This has already been proved without any doubt. 



The criminals and corrupts are still for 18th amendment because they want to loot the money of taxpayers.


Either 18th amendment must be abolished or the dictatorial clauses must be changed with immediate effect.



Due to such 18th amendment the chief ministers have become dictators, corrupts and criminals without any fear. 



The people suffered and are suffering from this 18th amendment and the politicians are doing crimes and corruptions who are in favour of this.


PPP support 18th amendment so that PM can't do anything.

Als PPP: PM isn't doing anything!



What is this hypocrisy?




Terrible! Where is their conscience?


What you expect from thief's.


We are paying taxes to save their pockets!!!

Elites are free and poor are in chain in NEW Pakistan.


@hxxxxxx,  they don't have it!






Lesser people less trouble. Both sides should welcome this move. Should be reduced to 10%.


Both the countries should make it one fourth. Why do you need strength if all you are going to do is issue few visas.


Cost saving for both countries... Less headache


Show the CCTV footage of islamabad road accident and close the case .


What else can they do to divert attention from China? It is either Nepal or Pakistan. They may also try to stage some drama. How ever they should know that Pakistan will respond in befitting manners and shock them once again. They are thinking with $ 495 in foreign reserves  they have become a super power.


Better to close the embassies


Why no anger on Chinese


Well said “ Pakistan bashing sells well in India.”


A great step!


Better to close all diplomatic relations.


Well, after getting hammered by China, a useless move like this was expected for internal consumption to show how "strong" Modi is!!


What are the use of either side of HC in respective country.


Good for both.


My goodness! 83 as against sanctioned posts of 06, working are  in our embassy in New Delhi but doing what? Aren't we paying those 83 in hard earned foreign exchange which is always a rare commodity in Pakistan? I know that in India we always had such a big number of people posted there but I very much doubt if our Foreign Minister or even High Commissioner can justify posting of each and every staff working in India. How much Pakistan will lose now when its 50% staff is being shunted out alike? To me this is a blessing in disguise in a sense that now Pakistan will save whatever we had to spend on these people each month.Will sky split apart if we reduce by 75% instead of 50%? Iqbal Hadi Zaidi / Kuwait / zaidi.iqbalhadi@hxxxxxxxxxm


India is dependent on Pakistan for its survival.


Two countries cannot live and work with each other.

India says Pakistan detained two of its staff few days back.



So better to shut all the staff and consulates, why just half?


Let close it or work productively.


I thought India will see this as a chance to cozy up to Pakistan.




