



Q block is clueless like the PM


It's a difficult situation with no clear solution. Businesses need to be protected to ensure employment and economic recovery when the situation subsides; but the governments of countries such as ours are extremely stretched and often pushed to make populist statements along with practical solutions.


Uncertain world and financial situations! Nothing will work for anyone, neither for riches or poor. All efforts to impress public will go vain as downturn just began and we all have to pay a fair price for damaging nature and devaluing human means.




Confirmed Cases Worldwide  935,817.     _  Will hit 1,000,000 this week.


These APS will or maybe effective in developed and some developing countries where literacy is high and mobile and internet is widely used but what about the rest. What about countries like Pakistan where 60% are ill literate and 90% mobile users can only use it for phone calls.


Are we living in MATRIX, because there is no progress on medical care yet all is on virtual means which is not helping so far.


This pandemic needs ways and means to stop this crisis from growing much before anything on academic side.




Poverty stricken countries, like India, with 80% poor will suffer the most.


Yes this is a concern. Harvesting is just beginning and migrant labour has left for respective villages. I think Indian government after identifying hot spots for sustained anti virous action, will slowly reopen other places for normal business, yes with precautions in place.


Record food grain harvest is predicted in India. Last year too was record breaking.


Pakistan will NOT have food shortage. China will help.


But our PM is genius, he say it ain't an issue.


We are told that we have enough stocks of food items to last about 6 months.




several groups in several places have been sorting through antibodies to find good candidates. Nothing new here.


What a tragedy. Chinese gave the virus to the world and now they will also give medicine and antibodies to confront it..


A team of Chinese scientists has isolated several antibodies that it says are “extremely effective” at blocking the ability of the new coronavirus to enter cells, which eventually could be helpful in treating or preventing Covid-19.   _ No could be about it.  They have the answer.


They invented the virus . No word that they would stop eating rats and-----


Stop eating everything which can crawl.


Sick of conspiracy theories, shame on you who demonize China while benefiting a lot from products that made in China. Let along China helped this country so much in different way


@Truthhurts,  Including cow.


China is the country that will take the world out of this crisis. They will find the anti vaccine.


@Truthhurts,  'Stop eating everything which can crawl.'



That also applies to countries that feast on cow dung and urine.


Why was this virus patented in US and  Britain in 2018 and its vaccine in Europe in 2019. But now the vaccine patent has disappeared from the books. Why?


Too early days. Isolating 10% job done.


Who in their right mind would trust anything coming out of China.


@Thomas,  it was Modi who called Xi before Trump and expressed solidarity with China and immediately sent relief materials of 15 tons to China. India helps everyone during testing times, had offered to evacuate Pakistanis from China as well. This is not the time to spread hatred, humanity is above everything. What If tomorrow some other deadly virus wipes out our entire planet, only human dead bodies will be remaining everywhere and even that too will be decayed overtime.


Another lie


These are all claims, nothing is tested. Don't fall for these news. The only way  to safely is to maintain social distancing and personal hygiene. Be safe than sorry.


It would be an effective treatment, but the problem with such drugs has always been mass production, and keeping the cost down. Perhaps it is time that these drugs become affordable as the whole world is paying attention. If so, let me assure you it will be a great news as many other diseases will be treated by such drugs. Until now, it just wasn't affordable.


@Lulu,  Are you suffering from Wuhan Syndrome?


Meanwhile our own antibodies are produced naturally by adoptive immunity that responds quickly once they are produced in us. That is how curve is depressed after the peak....

We just act on decreasing the peak and simultaneously work on prophylaxis for this viral infection...


So soon.. I was thinking after 1 Million deaths, China will announced their hidden formula..


The antibodies wont work in every body infected. It depends on the blood group. If the antibodies are from blood group o+ it will work in all.


The antibodies only can be taken from a healthy recovered individual if he willingly donates, and every one knows Chinese ruthlessly will take the antibodies from a Chinese asymptomatic.


Many asymptomatic (recovered) patients are collapsing, as there is a video of China man collapsing on a road.


@Zak,  Keep dreaming.


They might test the effective antibodies on their own people and on Pakistanis who trust them.


u owe world a vaccine and apology


@bhaRAT©,  So it's ok for you to call a 1920 flu as Spanish Influenza and it's called racist when they call CV19 as Chinese Virus.


@farid,  hope you know the difference between crawling and moving






Excellent suggestion.




Now our great leader khan  realised that it was social distancing and partial lock down slowed down the corona spread and not our hot weather as per his earlier theory


I think every move rises question of governments in even developed countries. So, keep low the measurement scale in this time of crisis


Creating balance between feeding people and keeping them safe is very delicate one under current circumstances.  Due to years of plundering and ignorance, Pakistan doesn't have a strong economy to tilt heavily towards keeping people safe only.  Even, in the USA their is no extreme lock down, only social distancing.  We are are already seeing stock outs in markets and rising unemployment in the USA.  I can only imagine what could happen in Pakistan.




When China was in trouble, Pakistan immediately sent large cache of PPEs. When Pakistan expressed need, China sent 8 times that number back on top priority, and more coming. Major hospitals have got relief.


Salute to the medics. An air force friend of mine says their cargo planes are carrying out relentless relief/medical goods transport from China 24/7. Thankfully, situation is improving every day. We stand together.


The security state


Rather ambitious if not indulging in wishful and fanciful thinking - "overhaul the sacred cow that is the political economy of defence" ??? Really?


As long as we do not shake hands and maintain social distancing from the Money Launderers of London, we should do just fine.


It appears from the headlines that Pakistan is mostly interested in what others are doing. Its an eerie feeling to see almost no effort to prevent coronavirus from decimating the nation.


You have highlighted all ills in our country but do you think does we have resources that include education, industry manufacturing.  

Your opinion is not reflecting government efforts. You advocated for political persons why.


There is a shortage of medical supplies globally, all governments are finding it difficult to source medical supplies that includes the US and UK, Pakistan is not alone, but we must continue the fight with or without because there is no other choice. With regards to catering for the need of the most vulnerable IK has done the right thing and it is up to everyone else to cooperate and state instruments to do their job in delivering, however I thing extreme situations call for extreme measures he should be a bit braver and start requisitioning all private hospitals and pharmacy's and even go as far as nationalising them and not only that the state should take at least a quarter share of industry's that is now queuing up for government handouts in return for tax payer money.


We are still busy with political games with other countries and trying to  score brownie points. Let's stop acting like spoilt brats and take a mature approach to dealing with this situation.


When a pandemic happens at such a huge scale, no single country has the first hand experience to handle such a calamity for a one in a hundred year event. 



All countries are learning to cope as best as they can. It is just like if one's car has broken down in the middle of a desert, don't expect to see a full fledged hardware shop there who would sell the required spare parts. Setting up a permanent shop for a rare breakdown there is just futile thinking.


Thank you for highlighting the deficiencies, I think, government should take this to parliament, that gives legitimacy to it. Let this be debated and they should set the priorities as a bipartisan action plan, spending on human resources population control, education and national integration should get priority,


My advice to the good professor is that he should step out of Pakistan if he can, and do a reality check around the world. And if he were to do that, the truth would dissuade him from giving such poorly phrased account of the situation "AS the colossal reality of a global pandemic with no precedent in living memory unfolds in a society that is amongst the world’s least equipped to cope" The fact is that Pakistan is not world's least equipped to cope-there are many a countries who are struggling to cope with this pandemic.


@Fastrack,  please comment on the part of nurses


@Indian,  My dear you appear to be in a much better shape if population ratio is considered. Let's pray for all on both sides of the border.


"Pakistan is certainly not the only country in which healthcare providers are suffering for of a lack of preparedness, but that is hardly cause for celebration."



Do you just rant out whatever comes to the tongue, who is "celebrating", yet you allege it.  This is an article which should have highlighted the failed state we have but also what is working and if things are not working then suggest concrete solutions instead of just verbal diarrhoea of whatever comes to your mind of negativity.  Such a depressing write up.



Go block my response because you have the power to say whatever you want without swallowing the bitter pill, as your article lacks evidence, is not journalism.


@Indian,  I see just the opposite in my state of Gujarat.  Fantasy job by the state government


Last but not the least the unsung heroes are policemen and other security personnel who are still performing their duties, the sanitation men doing their routine,shopkeepers supplying the essential goods and many many more.


Next crisis might happen after a century but the enemy is at our door, want to dispense with the gate-keeper? I guess we might hear something like that pretty soon so I'd thought to be the first to report it..


@CT Rao,  

"Fantasy" exactly. Come out of fantasy to real world.


@Abbassin,  

Well said.


Nothing was done for healthcare, education....sectors for decades and now people expect from this government to somehow produce all those facilities in a fortnight?


Well the chincs are to blame for this virus


@Ali da Malanga,  good point 

only focus was Kashmir


@Fastrack,  great 

so no problems at all

why is your media reporting that there are no ventilators and quarantine  situation is so bad that infections are spreading from patient to patient




Excellent article. The level to which public discourse sinks to in Pakistan is amazing. You do not know if to cry or laugh!


In the last elections the tigers didn't do well. Hope they have been rejuvenated?


There is a difference between a tiger and a lion. Even a fool can fathom


Magnanimous, and opulent and so on and so forth..... The writer by end is again begging for forgiveness for the previous rulers of Punjab. :) Ironical! isn't it?, that all journalistic fraternity is only fixated on asking for pardons for the rulers who almost ruined the economy to the core, but were portrayed in the newspapers as the savoir of humanity.... Ulterior motives, misguiding the public, personal issues or utter complacency..... ???? one can go as far as one can go, innit?




