



.  The nexus between right-wing Indian media and the BJP always existed.


@Dx. Salaria, Aamir Ahmad, Blah Blah Blah Blah Blah..... You talk too much like your PM IK.... And no work done.... Our PM Modi... Walks the Talk.... Right from scrapping of Article 370...CAA...etc. etc... And many more.... He's got the guts and he's doing it.... What does your PM IK have? ... Only Twittering


There is a legal process to prosecute, if journalists cross their limits. They don't end up as dead bodies on lonely road sides or simply disappear..like in Pakistan.


Big deal. Even a teenager in India who knew anything about PM Modi would have told you that India would retaliate.


A PM responding to something that a journalist said is ridiculous.


@Fxxxxxxx, OK man be happy with your great country, why worry about India so much?


Everyone knew something big will happen after Uri we had the surgical strikes after Pulwama we all knew something  big would happen if you can check the WhatsApp messages of your FM


Name one country where Media is not privy to Gov. insider information.


All over the world Media has nexus with Government else news have no meaning.




Just read this story. The nation strongly agrees with PMIK. Pakistan deserved to go ASAP.


Who killed engineering who fail to produce always.


Why not be open and take names of those in Pakistan who were suspected to be behind the killings of the French engineers in Karachi


Another Rekodiq brewing???


Although your comment does not spell it out the implication of where the finger should also point towards is quite obvious. It is a great shame that our culture, our values our sense of justice our sense of self worth is so very blighted that human lives do not matter "sadly, that is how accountability is in Pakistan" that is all those who lost their lives is worth in our country. When the justice system in France goes right to the top person, ours justice system by contrast is what it is. Sad.


Financial  wrongdoing  in  all  the  defence  purchasing  of  Pakistan.


Please start the accountability with Zardari. He probably made the most money in the Augusta scandal.


In one sentence you have written “Gen Musharraf’s military government prevented all those culpable from being proceeded against.” And after another you write “Sadly, that is how accountability is in Pakistan, a handmaiden of political opportunism,”



Is it a political opportunism, or military opportunism?


@Ixxxxxxxy , you have not read the news

“ likely cover-up by Gen Musharraf’s military government prevented all those culpable from being proceeded against”

So how come you are pointing to Zardari!


@Kxx, Because of Musharraf and Benazir deal; NRO


@M. Emad, 'Financial  wrongdoing  in  all  the  defence  purchasing  of  Pakistan.'



Same in India but worse.


@Ixxxxxxxy , 'Please start the accountability with Zardari. He probably made the most money in the Augusta scandal.'



Zardari got Benazir to make an unscheduled stop in Paris to sign the deal.




Wow what a wonderful write up! How do we start at the elementary school level or indeed the childhood lessons at home?


Wow a great write up. How can we start at the elementary level or even at home for pre-school kids?


One hand is for show to the world while the other silently does the opposite.


Right on target!


An excellent piece from the Dean.


Wah!

.

The source of the malaise identified to the core.

I wish the political spectrum in Pakistan,across board, take it as the starting point of

Wishing Pakistan the best provided the embrace the suggestions put forward.


Excellent piece of work


Bravo great article


Puritanism:  The haunting fear that someone, somewhere might be happy.




Agree with your observations. Two hundred year tradition of civility at time transfer of power was broken when Trump did not accept he result of fair election. Biden is experienced and decent man.


If this was Saudi Arabia or the Soviet  Union; the agitators wouldn't  have lived!




Good. Pay for your misdeeds.


When politicians and people in power stop caring for contracts made and care more for political machinations, such denouement is to be expected. Enjoy these inevitable consequences.


This nation has gone really down; corruption and incompetence are now at its peak, and intellectual prowess is zero, we are totally illiterate. We must stop and pause. Can we really carry out accountability and international asset recovery? We need to go the long and difficult road to self improvement


Easy come, easy go.

Or as our dear friend Dr. Aamir Ahmed would say: As you sow, so shall you reap. And he is 100% right, of course.


Back Channel talks are already happening with Iron Brother. 

China wants the mining contract there. They will pay the fine and take over the mines. 

I don't think we need to worry as long as China is our friend


That Roosevelt was already shut and this 'settlement' is the best possible for Pakistan aside, it again proves IK's point.  Pakistan just had to go.


If so, very good riddance as Roosevelt was already announced shut. But proves IK's point why  Pakistan had to go.


"Pakistan government properties around the world..."! Would this include embassies, if Pakistan owns any, that is?


Two hotels to repay most of that old "big" debt? Excellent if true. Also justifies why Purana Pakistan is being replaced quickly. Win-win for Pakistan.


'The path to hell is paved with good intentions'. Those that deliver are vilified and prosecuted, while those that criticize and do nothing are heroes. This is the paradigm of last 20 years.


Pti is such a loss for this nation.wish we had never voted for them.will never do it again.all there promises were only talks .


@Fxxxxxxx, 

Love is blind


@Fxxxxxxx, I am surprised by you logic.


Pakistan is still paying price for the loot and bad decision making of PML N and PPP Govt.. Sheer incompetence and corruption on their part will continue to haunt us for years to come.


No surprises here. The wages of political engineering and judicial stupidity have come due.


More to come. Embassies and foreign accounts next. Then pending POE planes..


Naya Pakistan is far more worse than . Imran Khan brigade is good at doing nothing.


@Rxxxxl sharif, 

You bhakts are always surprised by realities.


@Fxxxxxxx, for you ' fraction' equals majority? No maths classes in your ?






Hopes to get some money on that account is the real motivation.


Be hopeful but continue exposing the only enemy of peace in Afghanistan, desperate Mischief Modi's India.


Day in and day out giving statements on other countries. Aren't you the FM of Pakistan sir?


Indians desperately hoping USA remain some more in Afghanistan so they can do more of their dirty terrorism work. 

What frustrated hate material.


Please zip it. No one's listening to you.


Hope Qureshi does not demand loans from Afghanistan..


First solve our own problems..In every side, we are performing pathetic and we are teaching others


Afghan  Govt,  India  not  so  hopeful  on  intra-Afghan  dialogue.


No consistency in FM Qureshi's talks.. He only tries to be in front of the camera without substance. Sad..


Success of Pakistan will starts once ends India Centric Foreign Policy.


When will you concentrate on Pakistan?


Please concentrate on Pakistan


If successful it is because of Pakistan, if not India and USA are the reason for failure.


Neither Qureshi nor Khan are serious about Afghan peace. They just talk big and have no power to even lift a pebble on the ground


Pakistan's role in the ‘peace’ process is similar to turning the self opened tap off after flooding an area and claiming to be saviour from flood damage.


These Hopes have a vested interest which Afghans now know ......... One cannot understand who would try and seek Space and Justice for Barbaric people like Taliban ........ Such talks make no sense


Afghanistan does not want you , they have made it clear.


Qureshi should be made next PM of the country.


@Lxxxxi , They have no clue what happened to Afghanistan.


It's a HIGH time we must concentrate on PAKISTAN first.

We SHOULD leave India aside.


Problem Grows where Pakistan Goes.....


He is 100 percent right.


Taliban will listen to PMIK only. He needs to make a visit and solve the issue once and for all.


SMQ is busy solving others problems because Pakistan has no problems of its own .


Dont demand loans from Afghanistan.


Qureshi is a worthless Parrott. His statements have no value. He is a disgrace to position he holds.


@Fxxxxxxx, Qureshi ia a total looser


@Fxxxxxxx, Lets get PIA plane first




No issues. This  Senate is on the death bed. Approval of bill coming in two months in New Senate.


Don,t worry PPP are on the way out



Soon the senate will under PTI control


The overwhelming opposition dominated parties in the upper house of parliament, Islamic Republic of Pakistan rejected a bill to grant more powers to Parma because they might think it already is empowered enough and to make sure that Parma should not become like dictatorial, autocratic and authoritarian regime in Burma.


@Dxxxk Miller, and then PEMRA will be out of control and you will be the one crying the most.




Needs to investigate how she died.


@Oxxxxxxx, already investigated in Canada where she found dead.


@Oxxxxxxx, the Canadian authorities did - natural causes



Let's not use her death for fraudulent political causes


@Sxxxxxz Ahmed Tarar, yes - there is no conspiracy


RIP Karima. Your sacrifice will not go to waste, Baloch will get good news soon


@Oxxxxxxx, she died in Canada. Already investigated by a western country. What do you want? A alien force to come and investigate.


@Oxxxxxxx, it is Canadian gov. prerogative where she chose to live.


Canadian police had investigated the matter thoroughly and found no foul play. Ms Karima died a natural death. However it is sad to see a young person  & activist passing away like that. We must look after, groom and provide opportunities to our young people to make them part of our developing society. All they ask for is a patient ear and  a shoulder to cry on.


Karima  Baloch  a  Brave  daughter  &  Inspiration  for  Baluchistan  people.


From her picture, she appears to be a decent non aggressive person. her political asylum in Canada, might be an easy way of moving out to a greener pasture, for better life.


@M. Emad, the Balloch will never forget the forced disappearances and mysterious murders .




This is what experts have been advocating for a long time. Small rain water dams are the best way to harvest rain water. Furthermore, it is about time government seriously thinks of helping farmers with sprinkle and drip irrigation systems that will minimise water use and hence conserve water. To me, flood irrigation must be banned in Pakistan because it wastes 80% of the water.


Pakistan faces water scarcity due to climate-related drought and an agriculture that is pushing itself to meet the demands of a growing population, but, the absentee farmers knowing nothing except self rule on feudal customs, are hell-bent upon refusing development on scientific principles. Indus Basin Development Plan of 1967 had foreseen a 22 MAF capacity water storage dam in lower Punjab for meeting demands of Sindh. But it could only get water from Kalabagh Dam, not digestible to Sindh.


@Dxxxxxxxxxx, Sprinkler irrigation system is not suited for our farmers because that system needs silt free water with no depositor salts that could clog the sprinkler nozzles. Wild flooding irrigation system, you are right, is very wasteful. We must adopt "furrow irrigation", with scientifically operated timing of feeding water to the furrows and conserving water.


Good step in the right direction ....this was being suggest years ago. We have water, we just don't manage it well.




Very good. 

Meanwhile "India’s Covid-19 vaccine drive  hit by turnout as low as 22%, due to fears.." (The Guardian).


But where is the vaccine? The cost of the vaccine in India is between Indian Rupees 200-300, depending on the brand.

Chinese are experts in cost management. We hope that the Govt. will beat India in the pricing and make available the vaccine to the masses.


For what? What will they do without any vaccines?


Why do you need training to provide Chinese sugar water to people.




