


NEW YORK, Nov 07 (APP): Former US Vice President Joseph Biden Friday swept into the lead in the state of Pennsylvania, where a victory would give him the presidency, and was ahead in three other critical battleground states as his campaign focused on a presidential transition process and officials worked to tally the remaining votes.
“We don’t have a final declaration of victory yet, but the numbers tell us a clear and convincing story: we’re going to win this race,” Biden said to a socially distanced group of supporters gathered in vehicles in a parking area in Wilmington, Delaware, predicting that he’d wind up with “over 300 electoral votes,” when 270 votes are required to law claims on the White House.
The former vice president spoke as three days of ballot counting has yet to produce an official victory.
Meanwhile, Trump’s campaign is suing in multiple states to halt or modify tabulation policies, claiming potential fraud.
His running mate Senator Kamala Harris did not join him for the speech, as originally planned if his victory had been declared by major news outlets. A planned fireworks display was also canceled.
Biden leads in current vote counts in Arizona, Georgia, Nevada and Pennsylvania. If those leads hold, he would win the Electoral College in a decisive 306-232 vote.
Biden is ahead of Trump by 27,130 votes in Pennsylvania, 29,861 votes in Arizona, 22,657 votes in Nevada and 4,020 votes in Georgia.
But the margins are thin across the battlegrounds and many ballots remain to be counted. The Associated Press and major networks have not declared a winner, though some smaller news outlets have projected a Biden win.
The president claimed in a defiant Thursday night press conference that “if you count the legal votes, I easily win.”
Trump’s adviser and 2016 campaign manager Corey Lewandowski said in a Fox News appearance on Friday night that Trump has no plans to concede.
“I did speak to the president. He is ready to fight until every last little vote is counted,” Lewandowski said.
In his remarks, Biden also claimed a “mandate for action” to begin work on issues that included the coronavirus pandemic, the economy, climate change and systemic racism.
But he also urged patience and calm as the results came in.
But he also urged patience and calm as the results came in.
“We have to remain calm, patient, let the process work out as we count all the votes,” he said.
In Philadelphia, some Biden supporters started dancing in the street outside the convention center, in front of a banner declaring “The People Have Spoken.”
In Georgia, Biden’s lead was initially so narrow that state officials said a recount was inevitable. But by Friday evening it had grown to about 4,000 votes.
In Arizona, Biden maintained his lead as election officials continued to plow through tens of thousands of ballots from Phoenix and its suburbs. His advantage shrank slightly, but not by as much as Republicans had hoped.
In Nevada, Biden nearly doubled his lead Friday to around 22,600 votes.
Biden’s appeal to let the process play out contrasted with that of Trump, who took the lectern in the White House briefing room on Thursday to falsely claim that the election was riddled with fraud, as part of an elaborate coast-to-coast conspiracy by Democrats, the news media and Silicon Valley to deny him a second term.
As the number of outstanding ballots slowly dwindled, Trump was left increasingly with only legal challenges to forestall defeat, while Biden was betting on the steady accumulation of postal ballots to keep him on top in Pennsylvania.



LAHORE, Oct 26 (APP):Ejaz Khan of Peshawar took over the leader board top position casting aside the overnight leader Muhammad Amir of Karachi Golf Club after the culmination of the second round of the Punjab Jinnah development golf tour tournament at the PAF shy view golf course here on Saturday.
Ejaz attained the preeminent uppermost position by playing in a captivating manner and managing to come up with a score of gross 69 in the second round which enables him to compile an aggregate score of 138, six under par at the end of the second round and as the championship of these second tier golf professionals moves into the final phase of this selection related event. On Friday, in the course of the first round he was steady too and was again outstanding today on Saturday.
He demonstrated the touch of a champion and with two rounds scores of 69 and 69 ,he has three stroke advantage over his nearest adversary, M.Amir who is placed at a score of 141,three under par.
Amir the leader of the first round faced a few hicups in the second round and somehow his putting performance on the greens lacked the touch of excellence that he reflected in the first round .That left him in bit of distress as his score for the second round lacked the champions touch.However he still lies at the second position and can re emerge as a victor on the final day on Sunday.
Another competitor in line for top honors is Sunny Masih of Lahore Gymkhana.This young one who hopes to develop into a champion during this season ,was intense and penetrating in the second round on Saturday and his determined effort helped him to produce an admirable score of gross 69,and a two rounds aggregate of 142,two under par.Competition wise he is four strokes behind the leader ,Ejaz Khan.
More participating competitors who hope to do well are Zahir Shah (Peshawar) and Muhammad Saqib (Lahore Garrison) who are currently bracketed at a score of 143,one under par.From the scoring angle ,Saqib came up with best score of the second day with a round of 67,five under par and since he was four over par on the first day ,he now stands at one under par ,,overall for the two rounds.
A few more in line for honors are Raheel Ikram(Gujranwala),Asif Shah (Lahore Garrison), Arshad Rashid (Karachi) and Shahbaz Masih(Karachi).They stand bunched together at a score of 144.
As many as 43 competitors earned the right to compete in the final round being played tomorrow, Sunday.Prize money for this event is one million rupees.





|
|
As part of the three day training at Ilm-o-Hunar Foundation (IHF) auditorium for the ASER data collection in district Vehari, I along with my team member Rao Irfan Khan, took training session as a master trainer. First day training sessions were based on a detailed account of how the survey would be conducted; the assessment tools used and the kind of data to be collected.
On the second day of the training, the participants were taken to a village near Vehari as per the plan and training agenda. We first visited a government primary school. After completing mock practice in the school and doing sampling of 20 households, we started the household survey. We experienced a very interesting story there.
Faisal regularly plays with his friends in 11/WB village located near Vehari. He never went to school till he was old enough to work in a nearby auto workshop. His story resonates with the accounts of similar out of school children of his village who are forced to quit school in order to make earnings for their families. When we entered the village and started moving towards the houses, kids ran up to us in excitement of what we had to offer to them. With intrigue, they looked at the pile of survey instruments we were holding. As per our agenda, we began surveying the children. Faisal appeared to be very reluctant in the beginning. He refused to answer our questions but later on, when he saw other kids enjoying the ASER assessment, he called in his mother. His mother was uneducated and asked us if were filling (“Mardam Shumarri” )census forms? When we told her our purpose is to assess basic literacy and numeracy of these children, she refused to participate. It was after a great deal of convincing that she sat down and told Faisal to answer the questions.
Faisal, who was never enrolled in any type of school or educational institute, but was able to read letters in Urdu and English and was able to recognize 99-100 numbers. Happily, I told his mother, “Your kid is very bright. Faisal has never been to school yet he is able to read letters. Please do send him to school." His mother refused. “It’s really hard for us to survive. I thought that you are here for census. Of course I want my children to go to school but I cannot afford this. If you really want to do something, please ask someone to help us." We instantly left for Ilm-o-Hunar Foundation (IHF) office with faisal’s mother and had a meeting with their regional head. He acknowledged ASER efforts for reaching out to remotest parts and committed that he will support such households so that their children can go to school. The parents and officers from the IHF were surprised that such a noble act can be done with such conviction. This narrative is an example of how ASER is reaching out to every part of society for spreading the light of education.



What May the Education Industry Be Like If There Was No Cloud-Based Technology
If there was no cloud-based technology, majority of the schools and colleges would have completely demolished from the face of earth. Traditional methods of school management come with an array of restrictions and limitations making school management not just a difficult process, but a costly one as well. Procedures such as exam calculation, student attendance and accounts management take hours or sometimes days to complete. School admins that are still not aware about various conveniences of cloud-based technology are on a greater loss. Archivist Pakistan is providing schools and colleges of today with an easy way of data management.
Today, anyone with basic knowledge of computer can easily run a digital administration network without having to rely on paper or other staff members. School admins are responsible for running multiple departments in order to locate various problems and issues on time. It’s the 21st century and schools and colleges of today are required to buckle up in order to get an edge over their competitors. It is no more required for them to waste their precious time on various slow and time consuming methods of administration. The digital system comes with many conveniences resulting in better and faster methods of administration.
The use of online school management system has increased in the past few years and the reason for that are the outstanding results that come with it. It has been witnessed in some areas that some schools are still depending on traditional methods of administration. Academic institutes of today are required to keep track of various slow and time consuming methods of administration on a daily basis therefore, it is always important to keep track of various management strategies resulting in faster and effective methods of administration. The use of cloud-based technology has become necessary in this day and age because admins cannot deny the array of benefits that come with it.
Education industry may not function properly without an online administration system. The problem is that in some areas many school and college owners are still not using the online school management system. Academic institutes of today are known for providing school admins with faster and effective methods of administration. Online school management system comes with an array of methods of administration resulting in faster procedures and better productivity.
With Archivist Pakistan, comes a broad spectrum of astounding features and advantages such as multi-campus management, reliable and fast servers, SMS alert system, attendance management, exam management, full fledge accounts system and the list goes on.
A well-organized administration network reduces the chances of errors especially regarding student reports and attendance. There are many departments in an institute and it’s not feasible for a living person to keep track of each one of them. In such situations, things need to be handled with extra care and attention. Online school management system comes into picture to cater such problems. The digital system also provides teachers and students with a stress-free work environment resulting in faster and effective methods of administration.



Attock Refinery Limited (ARL) was incorporated as a Private Limited Company in November, 1978 to take over the business of the Attock Oil Company Limited (AOC) relating to refining of crude oil and supplying of refined petroleum products. It was subsequently converted into a Public Limited Company in June, 1979 and its shares are quoted on the Pakistan Stock Exchange Limited in Pakistan. The Company is also registered with Central Depository Company of Pakistan Limited (CDC).
Original paid-up capital of the Company was Rs 80
million which was subscribed by the holding company
i.e. AOC, Government of Pakistan, investment
companies and general public. The present paid-up
capital of the Company is Rs. 1,066.163 million.
ARL is the pioneer of crude oil refining in the country
with its operations dating back to 1922. Backed by a
rich experience of more than 90 years of successful
operations, ARL’s plants have been gradually
upgraded / replaced with state-of-the-art hardware
to remain competitive and meet new challenges and
requirements.
It all began in February 1922, when two small stills of
2,500 barrel per day (bpd) came on stream at Morgah
following the first discovery of oil at Khaur where drilling
started on January 22, 1915 and at very shallow depth
of 223 feet 5,000 barrels of oil flowed. After discovery
of oil in Dhulian in 1937, the Refinery was expanded
in late thirties and early forties. A 5,500 bpd Lummus
Two-Stage-Distillation Unit, a Dubbs Thermal Cracker Lubricating Oil Refinery, Wax Purification facility and
the Edeleanu Solvent Extraction unit for smoke-point
correction of Kerosene were added.
There were subsequent discoveries of oil at Meyal and Toot (1968). Reservoir studies during the period 1970-78 further indicated high potential for crude oil production of around 20,000 bpd. In 1981, the capacity of Refinery was increased by the addition of two distillation units of 20,000 and 5,000 bpd capacity. Due to their vintage, the old units for lube/ wax production, as well as Edeleanu, were closed down in 1986. Another expansion and up gradation project was completed in 1999 with the installation of a Heavy Crude Unit of 10,000 bpd and a Catalytic Reformer of 5,000 bpd. In 2000, a Captive Power Plant with installed capacity of 7.5 Megawatt was commissioned.
The latest Expansion / Up-gradation Project completed in November 2016 comprised the following:
ARL’s current nameplate capacity stands at 53,400 bpd and it possesses the capability to process lightest to heaviest (10-65 API) crudes. The Company is ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO/IEC 17025, OHSAS 18001 certified and is the first refinery in Pakistan to implement ISO 50001 (Energy Management System).
Series of Firsts
Status of Company
Company Registration Number
National Tax Number
Licence for Operation
Auditors
Legal Advisor
Sales Tax Registration Number
Company Secretary
Share Registrar
CDC SHARE REGISTRAR SERVICES LIMITED
CDC House,
99-B, Block B, S.M.C.H.S.,
Main Shahra-e-Faisal,
Karachi-74400.
Tel:(92) 0800-23275
Fax: (92-21) 34326053
URL: www.cdcsrsl.com
Email: info@cdcsrsl.com
Head
Office & Registered Office
Attock Refinery Limited
Morgah, Rawalpindi, Pakistan.
Contact Information
Tel: 92-51-5487041- 45
Fax: 92-51-5487093-4
E-mail: info@arl.com.pk




