


Pakistan have won the toss...now it remains to be seen that every batsman hits a ton...and bowlers make hat-tricks...  



PS: Optimism is a faith which leads to success and pessimism blunts the tools you need to succeed.


Pak 38/1 off 10.0 overs...even batting below test level...hmmmm


Target for BD: 316


No real intent by team pk to reach 400. Seems their target was 300


One simple question: What is hafeez doing in the team? It should clearly be Asif ali in his place as Pak needed hitters. As usual he batted at a pathetic pace. 





And then Harris Sohail who didnt score much either just dropped a sitter at slip. Teams deserving to goto semis dont perform this unprofessionally.


Shot by hafeez today n against Australia look like action replay. Catching practice for deep Fielder


Hafeez just dropped a catch as well. I wonder what it takes PCB to make him go and find a better replacement.


Pakistan won by 94 runs and share the 1/5 of the world cup...  



Youngster Shaheen Shah Afridi appears to be an impressive bowler of this tourney. 9.1
0
35
6




PS: Now back home, Pakistan squad and the management should be grilled.


Thank Allah we win the match. Else BD team was equivalent to us. Over all I am almost satisfied with results but not with intent of players.


There is no real team spirit. Every one looking for individual performance to make his position cemented. This trend can take team to no 4,5 or 6 but not champion


A couple of good battings but a lot of flops.



A couple of good fieldings but then dropped catches as well.



Great bowling by pacers but spinners were aweful.





Its the tale of Pakistani team. But I think since they defeated NZ they should have been in semis. One miserable loss against WI costed them big time.


In this match the Pakistni cricket team played very well they coul'd qualify for the seim final ....




NRR = Net run rate

H2H = Head to head





As it happened in this worldcup,



1) NZ and Pak have same number of points after the league matches.

2) Pak had beaten NZ 

3) NZ had only beaten small teams

4) Due to one big margin loss against WI, Pak had lower NRR than NZ.

5) Due to NRR, NZ is through to the semis.





I think NRR system has done to Pakistan the same what Duckworth lewis did to SA in 1992 semifinals. 



I dont know about soccer but in all American games the decision to move to next round is based on H2H. i.e. which team has defeated whom. If Pak had defeated NZ how in the world NZ is entitled to move to Semis? It just doesnt make any sense.



Pak was certainly a better team than NZ and they proved by defeating them. Its loud n clear. Also, basing things on H2H will discourage teams like India who display the max level of unsportsmanship and purposely lose to keep a better team away from semis.





Just like Duckworth Lewis was changed after 1992, its time for ICC to drop NRR system and stick to H2H.





If you have a understanding of Cricket, what do you think about it?


All the teams agreed to this NRR before the matches started. If anyone had any reaervations then, they should have comw forward and made a case for H2H as decider. No onedis and wr are at thia point where Pak suffered. Buts its too late now. Did we deserveto go to semis, you bet we did based on the sheer performance ine the last 4 games and beating 3 top rankes teams


yes they did, but so did they in 1992 as well but when they saw SA needing 18 runs off 1 ball as per DWL method, they decided to change it. Thats the whole point. The way NRR is calculated is by itself absurd. Your NRR is not based on your team's performance only but also the other teams. How ridiculous


As per source from cricinfo, the NRR of Pakistan right after first game was -5.xxx Thats just insane. How can that be after one game only?!!


My understanding is that calculation was bases on 106 odd runs scored in 50 overs.


in older times only RR was considered. Later they started considering NRR which is the difference between NRr for minus NRR against.  Which is fair enough



In our first match not only we didn't scored big RR of Only 2.14 . While windies scored in 14 overs RR 7.7 so NRR is -5.56.

tjis rule applicable for all teams. Badluck that this time pk is on recieving end. 

In my opinion H2H shud have more weightage than NRR


Head to head outs too much emphasis on ONE game. In a tournament where all teams play all other teams equal number of times, if two teams have same points tally, NRR seems to be the statistically fairest path. 



Our esteemed colleague mostart, in comment number 5 stated H2H should have greater weightage. Would he care to explain to the  and the rare  how he plans to reconcile the mixing of units between NRR and H2H?


Real Cricket used to be played in 5 day Test Matches! until both Teams retired 10 players each in TWO Innings Each!



Now Cricket is just another ONE DAY POP Festival,   



Who Cares How they score it, The Game is TRUNCATED!


I think so the NNR shoud n't be the end results there should be a plus point given the wining team against the highest rank team when to defeat it...


Will Reply only if u stop writing mostart.  It is moonstar


, I know you are Moonstar201. It was a joke - few weeks back you name was misspelled by another  here so I was having fun with it. No offense intended.



it is Moonstar201 from now on.


But isnt one game deciding the fate of a team either way? 



Had Pak not lost to WI, they would be through. One game.



Had India not lost to England, Pak would still be through. One game?



Let me show you another example. If it rains on India v/s NZ semifinal day as well as the alternate day. What do you think should decide who progresses to the finals. A toss? No, it should be who defeated whom in the league matches among the two. Get it?


No the debate is the system they are following to move the teams to next round


I seriously wish that Pakistan also paid attention to Football / soccer (for 'muricans) as that sport is much more democratic with multiple blocs instead of what has transpired in cricket.



In Cricket, you have the major money maker india that has bangladesh, sri lanka and afghanistan tag along with its policies.  Kiwis are beholden to the Aussies.   There is only South Africa left which can probably caucus with England.   You only have West Indies and Zimbabwe (which didn't even feature in this WC) so Pakistan's options are limited.  If it affects the big three then you sure will see changes in this system.



I think Imran Khan said it best that him and gavaskar had finally brought neutrality to umpiring in the early nineties but India negated all of it the moment that they got a little bit of power.


You got your first rhetorical question wrong. Precisely the point. The NRR takes into account performance in ALL games.


Are you saying the NRR was Implemented due to bcci pressure?


No I'm sure you didnt get it. I understand you are trying to say H2H is considering one game only but NRR is considering all games and thats why NRR is better. And thats where I think its terrible. Go back to the scenario I presented in initial post.



NZ and Pak both same points, both tied in wins,loses & draw. One team makes progress. That should be the team which was better among these two in mutual encounter.



Now go back to the scenario I posted in my last post. When there is rain or anything in a knockout match, how will you decide? It should be again who defeated whom in the league match. Its that simple and straightforward. 



And I can guarantee that at some point ICC will make H2H their choice but only when either Australia or India would be the victims as Pakistan was here.


Hahhah.... Just kidding...




It can be decided based on which team won more matches against other qualifiers. Look at this world cup Pakistan won against england and NZ them self while NZ didnt win against any other team which qualified.They lost to England and australia ,  They had abandoned match against India. This helped them.


I read your comment carefully. Re ? When there is rain or anything in a knockout match, how will you decide? It should be again who defeated whom in the league match. Its that simple and straightforward.? Again, if for some reason India NZ match does not get completed, India goes forward because India has more points in qualifying round. And remember, NRR is tie breaker if two teams are tied in points. So if India and no were to be tied in points, the team with better NRR would advance.


No but any changes to it won't happen if india doesn't want it.



My post was about the broader point of how India and then Aus/Eng control everything in cricket since a diminishing number of countries play this sport.


I think NRR should come into play if head-to-head is not available i.e. teams did not face in league round due to rain / no-result.


Something wrong there, Pakistan is the only team which beat both finalists and they were not even in the semis because of one big loss to windies. 



BTW the team from mars was beaten by both finalists.


I didn't read up that much up on thread but i can tell you and truth to be told..that our Team should have done better against West Indies. In order for NRR on our favour. I mean..ya sure i might not agree with NRR system because my love for Pakistan Cricket Team..but we should have had done better yo.

So always look up..Insha'Allah our will do better next time!


The main problem with H2H is that it cannot resolve 3-way ties or more than 3-way ties.


Pak team is at fault for the NRR loss. Why did they not try to make up that in other games ?

They end up winning in last overs or last ball even against loser team such as Afghanistan. So they **** in their own pants by not improving NRR.

Next time they better play more aggressively and win match EARLIER than last few overs for small targets

They were just too retarded to even realize the NRR thingy.




Yesterday's rain stoppage . Game started next day 

In response to 238 of Nz , India are 5 for 3 . Both Rohit and Kohli are back. Stage is set for the rescue operation from MSD


Wonderful NZ hit the Finale by beating India...


Great victory for NZ .

end of dhoni I believe.


I certain,y hope it is the end of dot ball Dhoni. His overstaying for last 3 plus years prevented others from getting a chance. To play with three wicket keepers made no sense.



As is his wont, he took the game deep. Too deep. The NZ commentator correctly stated more than once that Dhoni was leaving too much for Jadeja. Saurav Ganguly would year none of it. Right on cue, Jadeja had to hit a low percentage shot against Usain Boultbwith inevitable result.


Grat job NZ ! India deserved it .....




Dear Pakistanion,



Congratulations on the semifinal results. Deepavali came early to your household. Le Pak better sing the full Suprabhatam.


Smoke some where ????


Over confidence of the Indians drowned them!


Na it was Karma,.



Karma is a bytch as they say.


Those who insist that India deliberately lost to England ignore the fact the dot ball Dhoni has been doing this for last 2 plus years. Against mighty Afghanistan India muster 230 runs. Why would India lost to England when they could have faced Pakistan instead in the knockout rounds.



It was ineptitude that was the reason for the loss.


Yeah manay many congratulations to the poeple of Pakistan.....




England !


This might be the year England finally wins a world cup, cricket or otherwise



