


These graves have been subject to a variety of folklores which vary from region to region











From the recognition of giant footprints in Sri Lanka to the discovery of ancient graves big enough to endorse Gulliver’s fictional tales of Brobdingnag, there has been sufficient evidence over the years to suggest the existence of astoundingly tall people in the past. However, where other evidence is few and far between, the vast, nine-yard graves locally known as Nau-Gazas, have long been a worldwide phenomenon for hundreds of years. These graves, many of which are located in parts of the sub-continent as well as South Asia, Middle East and Europe, have been subject to a variety of folklores which vary from region to region.



In Pakistan, these gigantic graves are popular in various parts of the country but the longest among them are said to be in the historic cities of Gujrat, Sialkot and Chiniot. Regarding the two nine-yard graves in Gujrat, it locally believed these were the burial places of sons of Adam--the first man and prophet of Abrahamic religions. Whereas, it is popular about the graves in Chiniot and Sialkot that they belong to Muslim warriors from 757 AH, who had journeyed to the subcontinent from Madina to rival the Hindu raja Salwan. As per local belief, these men had migrated to the subcontinent to preach Islam, where they eventually died in their service to religion; making the city on the banks of River Chenab their eternal resting place.









According to Omar Din, the caretaker of a Nau-Gaza shrine in Chenab area, the Nau-Gaza Pir who allegedly lays there, was martyred in war against the Hindu raja while his comrades were also captured and killed in different parts of the province. “Although I was sent to serve at this particular shrine by my mentor Qalandar Pak, there are many such graves in various parts of Punjab. They belong to the comrades of the Nau-Gaza Pir,” shared Din. Similar stories also follow the graves of Sialkot’s Nau-Gaza Pir, who is similarly said to have waged a war against the local Hindu reign. Known as Imam Aliul Haq or Imam Sahib, the pir had brought with him an army of some 313 men, many of whom were known to be astoundingly tall. On the other hand, another nine-yard grave in the ancient Barla Sharif village of Gujrat, is widely believed to be the resting place of Qanbeet, the son of Prophet Adam. Similarly, there is also local recognition of the existence of a few other Nau-Gaza elders in Lahore, Pakpattan and Sheikhupura, who like the rest, were also preachers of Islam and thus amass hundreds and thousands of devotees from around the country to-date.



Given the repeated mention of towering men in various Abrahamic traditions, it is not too difficult to conjecture that these gigantic graves possibly belong to the gargantuan men of the past. But since no historic records exist for these graves, there is little surety in saying who or what actually lays beneath. Interestingly, according to archaeologists who have unearthed and studied over 4000 year-old human skeletons and arti facts, there exists no known record of nine-yard men or even close. Offering a more plausible explanation, archaeology describes this phenomenon as mass graves from times of war and epidemic. “At times, especially during war, several bodies would be buried together in mass graves and often along with a flag, which also explains the length of these graves,” explained local archaeologist Afzal Khan.


Shias have corrupted this beautiful  by promoting these  practices on graves.




The government should either set passing marks at 50% or let the 33% marks eligible to apply for a job.


5 sec search on google revealed that above 40 % is pass in England..




Very Shameful videos are offered by Siasat.Pk for its customers....


this is the worst discrimination against students. it doesn't matter if u pass a student at 33 or 40 per cent but that student can't even apply for clerk job with 3rd division .even if you have a single 3rd division in whole of your academic career and u get an MPhil degree you are automatically disqualified from applying for any job. only for prime ministership 3rd division is allowed.


What you are seeing shouldn't be there. Is it possible for you to pm me a screenshot and tell me what country you are in. I'll try to trace it down.


this discussion is happening on national India channel..crazy


do you realize that  didn't post this video? its an open forum.


Passing marks should never be less than 100%.





.


Open forum allow any type of video to be automatically displayed while watching a video. Be careful while visiting siasat.pk with family because its next video can be of any nature. All alone you may visit sisast.pk when no family member is with you.


passing marks should be at least 51% to ensure good quality and standard of education




To educate some of my fellow Pakistanis, here is the myth of Dollar Vs Rupee.



If the dollar's gains Rs1 against the Pakistani currency, it adds a total of Rs100 billion to Pakistan’s debt.So far the dollar lost 11 rupees from its peak of 166.



A weak rupee, against the dollar, means higher cost of imports. And the more Pakistan will have to pay for its essential imports, such as oil, the high goes its Current Account Deficit (CAD) – the value of imports in comparison to exports.

The devaluation will immediately reduce the size of the economy. Prior to the recent weakening of the currency, the Pakistan economy was valued at $313 billion, which fell to $280 billion. It is further expected to plunge to $270 billion.

A weak rupee means more expensive smartphones, computers, cars and other imported goods. Also, bye-bye to any foreign holidays you have planned for the summers.

A weak rupee is peddled as being good for exporters. Since now they get more for their value. But last year, when the rupee was devalued by 36 per cent, exports only registered an uptick of 0.12 per cent. So this essentially pokes holes in the federal government’s logic that devaluation will boost exports.

·A struggling rupee leads to inflation, which is already at a nine-year high of 9.2 per cent. Inflation, on the ground, translates to costlier petrol prices, which impacts how much we pay for electricity, food and other essentials since the cost of transportation goes up. Expect petrol prices to nudge up further in the coming days. This means that the cottage industry, which is the lifeline for daily wage workers, will struggle to survive. The price tag of doing business will also go up.


The dollar demise is near. Magic money theory is in tailspin.


Had Ishaq Dar not wasted 20 billion USD on controlling the exchange rates, we would have had 40 billion dollars in our reserves. There would not have been any inflation above 6%, and the dollar would have been at 128-130 rupees. Had he not raped this economy to gain votes, our growth would have been consistently at 4-5% and picking up towards 6% for a decade to come.

Patwaris are so blind and ignorant that they do not understand simple things. 

By controlling the dollar rate, MLN made imports cheaper for the consumer while exports fell from 25 billion in 2013 to 23.50 billion in 2017-18. It created a gap of 20 billion while we also had to pay 11 billion in loan instalments. There was no other source to finance this gap of 31 billion USD a year than to beg at IMF doors. In short, no other Pakistani government ever has been irresponsible to this extent.

.

MLN signed contracts for power plants for 13000 MW while demand was only for an additional 5000 MW. So we now are paying for the unused 8000 MW in capacity charges while some 6000 MW more power is in pipeline as 4 hydro projects, 2 atomic plants, and a couple of coal and wind turbines are nearing completion. Prices MLN agreed were in the range of 7.5 cents to 13 cents per unit while now we have bids of 4.2 cents per unit and they are begging for contracts.


The debt trap laid by previous government is too much for Pakistan.



For debt servicing we have to borrow more dollar , hence increase in loan. There is no way out of it.


Note that the notion that devaluation helps increase exports is right but only in a situation where your exports are not dependent on imports. The more your export is dependent on an imported product the more it will be harder for your exports to pick up even if you devalue your currency.



For example you are a textile exporting country which doesn't(or partly) produce cotton. Now let's suppose you devalue your currency. It will mean that the cotton price which you import will go up too. So if you are getting any benefit due to the devaluation, it is mitigated by the increased cost of your most important import, and so your net profit either stays the same or improves only marginally depending upon your reliance on the imported goods.


The rupee was never devalued by the current government. The rupee was released from its artificially pegged value of 105 by the previous governments. As the rupee was allowed to float freely against dollar, it immediately sunk to its real value of 168. Now it is hovering around 154 and now is in synch with strength of the economy.


Devaluation impact was lost due to corona. 

One year took government to make and implement policies and correct the path. Next one and half year is lost due to corona.

Now Government has to take popular decisions since general elections period will start after 4 years.


 raped Pakistan while chanting . This is worse than slavery


For that you need to have dollars. Now Government has to arrange 10 billion USD out of 44 billion USD reserves. Remaining is 34 billion USD. Annual deficit is 10 billion USD. So you have to borrow another 10 billion.



How much we can survive until rupee reaches to iranian currency level. I think not more than 10 to 15 years when we will reach at saturation stage.



It will like delaying an inevitable.




Quran corroborates this idea:



"Life of this world is nothing but a delusion. (Surah Al Hadid : 20) "


It could be so ---- but the creator made it so perfect or programmed it so perfect that we are bound to feel it real we laugh we cry we feel pain we feel joy ----- If it is true ---- Allah is the biggest and creator of all creation :subhan::subhan::subhan:


Quantum Physics also confirms this.


How funny it is when people try to convert scientific research and technology into religious philosophies and beliefs but then the question is which region is right winch god is right. Everyone would come up and claiming that their god is right ,their book is right. What a twisted and unreal world we are living where a proven scientific research is challenged and twisted by lunatics.




The matter of France envoy is over right regardless what happens on Friday in NA. I mean Fawad said after NA session that we have fulfilled the demands of TLP to table the resolution and state will handle the matter according to the resolution.



I mean what ever PMLN plans on Friday the fire is now defuse in the matter of France envoy right?


Actually PMLN hypocrisy is exposed. On assembly floor, PMLN can not side with the expulsion of the French envy since it will not prove them as liberals.



But even merit is that we can downgrade our relations with France, but TLP demands are stupid.








Extremists or such elements are like weeds. Just like weeds which grow in stagnant dirty water, these people grow in repressive, corrupt societies. Unfortunately the only cure is to mend the society by giving them basic rights, education, peace, justice....





Question more concerning is who created Altafis and TTP? And who created TLP


Who were those guys?


Actually, they are all not so different. If u look at these organizations closely, they were all formed by nobodies, whose only talent is to gather people and get them excited around a cause. Once they get somewhat established, they get bought from outside or inside the country to work on someone else’s agenda. Unless our society stops following stupid leaders and stop doing things out of hate and anger, this cycle will not stop.



