


The farmers’ agitation will keep moving forward and even spread to the rest of the nation, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said Tuesday. The farmers’ leader made the statement while addressing a ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ (grand session) in Pehowa in Haryana’s Kurukshetra district.
In an exclusive conversation, Rakesh Tikait boasted to Indian media that a rally of 4 million and not four lakh tractors will be taken out.
Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s criticism of agitation-savvy individuals, Rakesh Tikait said, “He [PM] has never been part of any agitation in his life. In fact, he did the job of breaking the nation. What would he know about Andolanjivis [people who hijack protests for personal gains]?”
“Bhagat Singh, even Lal Krishna Advani were part of agitations,” Tikait added.
Rakesh Tikait went on to say that the ongoing farmers’ agitation will continue till October 2 of this year. “But the protest will not end even after that. Farmers will keep returning to the protest sites in shifts,” the BKU leader told the media.
READ: Myanmar police warn protesters to disperse, general repeats pledge of new election
Asked why he has been addressing Mahapanchayats in Haryana, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait asked, “Is holding a Mahapanchayat in Haryana prohibited?”
Earlier on Sunday, Rakesh Tikait delivered a fiery speech at a ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ in Rajasthan’s Bhawani district. Tikait also addressed a large gathering of farmers in Haryana’s Jind district earlier this month.
Along with the leaders of as many as 40 farmers’ outfits, Rakesh Tikait has been part of a delegation of farmer leaders that participated in as many as 11 rounds of consultations with the central government. Tikait has been at the forefront of the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s Ghazipur border.





French DJ David Guetta said he hoped everybody would get vaccinated against COVID-19, shortly before recording a charity concert outside the Louvre Museum in Paris that was streamed on New Year’s Eve, reported Reuters.
Guetta, known for his collaborations over nearly two decades with artists such as Akon, J Balvin, Nicki Minaj and Kelly Rowland, raised money for UNICEF and French charity Les Restos du Coeur, which provides food and meals to people in need.
“I’m going to do the vaccine, and I hope people are going to do it too because I don’t see any other way to go out of this situation,” Guetta told Reuters ahead of recording the gig.
France, with 2,57 million cases and more than 64,000 dead, is one of the hardest-hit countries in Europe and in the world by the pandemic.
But the French are among the most sceptical about vaccines in the world, with opinion polls showing less than half the population intends to get a COVID shot.
France launched its COVID-19 vaccine roll-out on Sunday, along with other European Union nations.
Guetta said he hoped for an end to the pandemic in 2021 and one big, mad party.
“I want to tell them (my fans) that we are about to witness the craziest party year of our lifetime because the minute it’s going to be open, you know, it’s going to be amazing”, he said.
The Paris gig is part of the ‘United at Home’ charity initiative the DJ launched earlier this year.
Guetta has already performed two charity concerts in 2020, raising $1.5 million.



WASHINGTON: A higher-than-expected number of young men have experienced heart inflammation after their second dose of the mRNA COVID-19 shots from Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna, according to data from two vaccine safety monitoring systems, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said on Thursday.
The CDC and other health regulators have been investigating heart inflammation cases after Israel’s Health Ministry reported that it had found a likely link to the condition in young men who received Pfizer’s (PFE.N) COVID-19 vaccine. read more
The agency said it is still assessing the risk from the condition and has not yet concluded that there was a causal relationship between the vaccines and cases of myocarditis or pericarditis.
While some patients required hospitalization, most have fully recovered from their symptoms, the CDC said.
More than half of the cases reported to the U.S. Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) after people had received their second dose of either the Pfizer/BioNTech or Moderna (MRNA.O) vaccines were in people between the ages of 12 and 24, the CDC said. Those age groups accounted for less than 9% of doses administered.
“We clearly have an imbalance there,” Dr. Tom Shimabukuro, deputy director of the CDC’s Immunization Safety Office, said in a presentation to an advisory committee to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration meeting on Thursday.
The overwhelming majority of the cases have occurred within a week of vaccination, Shimabukuro said.
There were 283 observed cases of heart inflammation after the second vaccine dose in those aged 16 to 24 in the VAERS data. That compares with expectations of 10-to-102 cases for that age range based on U.S. population background incidence rates, the CDC said.
Shimabukuro said there was a predominance of males in younger age groups among the reported heart inflammation cases.
The median age of patients who experienced the inflammation after a second vaccine dose was 24, according to the VAERS data. Just under 80% of the cases were in men.
Shimabukuro also said the Vaccine Safety Datalink (VSD) – another safety monitoring system – showed an increased incidence of heart inflammation in 16 to 39 year olds after their second shot when compared to the rate observed after the first dose.
Pfizer said it supports the CDC’s assessment of the heart inflammation cases, noting that “the number of reports is small given the number of doses administered.”
About 130 million people in the United States have received both doses of one of the mRNA vaccines.
“It is important to understand that a careful assessment of the reports is ongoing and it has not been concluded that the mRNA COVID-19 vaccines cause myocarditis or pericarditis,” the company said in a statement.
Moderna said it also has not established a causal association with the condition and its vaccine. It said it is actively working with public health and regulatory authorities to further assess the issue.
The CDC said it will hold a meeting of its Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices next week to further evaluate the evidence and assess the risk of myocarditis following mRNA vaccination for COVID-19.



Ahmad Daoud surveyed his shrivelled tomato plants near the Dead Sea in Jordan, where severe drought in what is already one of the world’s most water-deficient countries is hitting hard.
“Look at how the land thirsts,” he said, walking on cracked earth stained with white salt patches, waving at the five hectares (12 acres) of his farm. “Everything I planted… is dead.”
He inspected a tomato the size of a marble that had dried up before it ripened.
“If there had been water, this tomato would have been as big as my fist,” he said.
Daoud, 25, rents the land in Ghor al-Haditha, around 80 kilometres (50 miles) south of the capital Amman.
The fertile area is home to many market gardens, but drought has taken a heavy toll.
“We usually suffer from a lack of water, but this year, it is much worse,” Daoud said. “When it comes, the flow is too low to water our crops or fill our tanks”.
The salty waters of the nearby Dead Sea are dropping dramatically in height too.
The recent rainy season, which usually runs from October to the end of April, was poor.
Rains were massively reduced, totalling just 60 percent of normal fall, said Omar Salameh, head of communications at the water and irrigation ministry.
“The situation is critical,” he said.
Worst yet to come?
Experts say Jordan is now in the grip of one of the most severe droughts in its history.
But many warn the worst is yet to come.
The environment ministry says Jordan is among the world’s most water-deficient countries, and fears that a warming planet will make the situation more severe.
“The increased temperatures and lower precipitation resulting from climate change would adversely affect crops and water availability,” the ministry says, in its National Climate Change Policy.
Mean annual temperature is expected to increase by two degrees Celsius, and rainfall cut by a fifth by 2050, according to projections used by the World Bank.
On a nearby nine-hectare (22-acre) farm, 43-year-old Ibrahim Dgheimat sits in his pickup, overwhelmed by the heat. He watches as several women pick beans.
“Normally, I grow peppers, tomatoes, eggplants, zucchini and cabbage,” he said.
“But this year, the lack of water destroyed two thirds of my crops”.
The financial losses have been heavy — as much as $42,000.
“I don’t have any way to pay the workers,” Dgheimat said.
To make matters worse, prices of produce slumped after exports dropped by a fifth last year due to coronavirus-related border closures.
The pandemic has also hit big customers like hotels and restaurants hard.
‘Up in smoke’
Daoud, born in Jordan to Pakistani parents — who like thousands of compatriots arrived in the 1960s onwards, many of them en route to pilgrimage in Makkah in neighbouring Saudi Arabia — says all he can do is torch the failed crop.
“Five months of work is going to go up in smoke,” says Daoud, who works with his brothers and their children.
Beyond crop irrigation, the drought could reduce access to drinking water too.
Jordan needs about 1.3 billion cubic metres of water per year, but the quantities available are around 850 to 900 million cubic metres, with the shortfall “due to low rainfall, global warming, population growth and successive refugee inflows,” Salameh said.
This year, the reserves of the three drinking water dams have reached critical levels, now just a third of their normal capacity.
At the same time, household water consumption has surged by 10 percent since the start of the pandemic, as people stay home amid restrictions.
In total, the country will be 40 million cubic metres short of water this year, according to Salameh, who urged residents to use as little as they can.
Amman says that under a 1994 peace agreement with its neighbour, Israel is obliged to provide the kingdom with 55 million cubic metres of water a year free of charge.
This year, Jordan has asked Israel to provide a further eight million cubic metres of water, but a deal was struck to sell only three million cubic metres.
To make up the shortfall, Jordan will have to pump from its water table, said Salameh.
And it will also have to try to prevent people breaking into pipes, a common practice for obtaining free water.



LAHORE: Students of Allama Iqbal Medical College (AIMS) on Friday boycotted their classes to record protest against out-of-order fans and ACs at the college in Lahore, ARY News reported.
The students of AIMS are facing problems in continuing their studies as out-of-order fans and the ACs are testing their nerves in the current wave of the heatwave in the city.
In order to force the administration of the college to change or repair the out-of-order fans and ACs, the medical college students boycotted their classes in protest.
The students complained that the college administration is not addressing the basic issue and added they are unable to continue their studies in this situation.
Earlier this week, as many as 25 students fell unconscious due to prolonged load shedding at a government school located in Malpur area of Islamabad.
As per the school administration, the electricity supply at the school was suspended since the morning and despite being informed, the Water & Power Development Authority (WAPDA) did not bother to restore the supply.
The school administration said the children started bleeding from the nose due to hot weather. The students had been admitted to a nearby hospital.



Long before taking up residence in the White House, Donald Trump appeared in “Home Alone 2” — a turn on the big screen he described as an “honor.”
Trump spoke with deployed members of the military on Tuesday, and one asked him about his appearance in the Christmas film.
“I was a little bit younger, to put it mildly… It turned out to be a very big hit, obviously. It’s a big Christmas hit, one of the biggest,” said Trump, who had just acquired the Plaza Hotel in New York, where several scenes for the 1992 film were shot.
“It’s an honor to be involved in something like that,” said the president, who appeared briefly in the movie.
In the film, little Kevin — played by Macaulay Culkin and again separated from his parents — struggles to find his way through the gilded hotel.
He stops a man in a long black overcoat and red tie to ask him for directions to the lobby.
“Down the hall and to the left,” replies Trump.
Actor Matt Damon claimed in a 2017 interview with The Hollywood Reporter that the businessman would allow films to be shot in his buildings as long as he received a part.
Trump is thus — most of the time playing himself — in the credits of some 20 films and series, including “Zoolander” and “Sex and the City.”




