


In any case Pakistan is not going to be a theocratic State — to be ruled by priests with a divine mission. We have many non- Muslims — Hindus, Christians, and Parsis — but they are all Pakistanis, says Jinnah
Agha Iqrar Haroon
Islamabad: Last night I had been searching my old diary that is full of some quotes of founder of Pakistan—Muhammad Ali Jinnah. I used to find and write his quotes since my childhood –before 1977 so I have interesting collection with me. After radical rule of Ziaulah Haq in 1977, moderate quotes of Jinnah were dumped and even eliminated from our text books and even research books thanks to a certain mindset. At last I found my diary and share following Jinnah’s broadcast to the people of the United States (February 1948):
“I do not know what the ultimate shape of this constitution is going to be, but I am sure that it will be of a democratic type, embodying the essential principles of Islam. Today, they are as applicable in actual life as they were 1300 years ago. Islam and its idealism have taught us democracy. It has taught equality of men, justice and fairly play to everybody. We are the inheritors of these glorious traditions and are fully alive to our responsibilities and obligations as framers of the future constitution of Pakistan. In any case Pakistan is not going to be a theocratic State — to be ruled by priests with a divine mission. We have many non- Muslims — Hindus, Christians, and Parsis — but they are all Pakistanis. They will enjoy the same rights and privileges as any other citizens and will play their rightful part in the affairs of Pakistan”.
In this broadcast, Jinnah, the constitutionalist that he was, refused to forestall the shape of the constitution, in order not to fetter the Pakistan Constituent Assembly from taking decisions it deemed fit. While he laid a good deal of stress on Islamic ideals and principles, he ruled out theocracy, saying “Pakistan is not a theocracy or anything like it. Islam demands from us the tolerance of other creeds.”
Before the establishment of Pakistan, the first public picture of Pakistan that Jinnah gave to the world was in the course of an interview in New Delhi (1946) with the correspondent of Reuter’s news agency:
the new state would be a modern democratic state, with sovereignty resting in the people and the members of the new nation having equal rights of citizenship, regardless of their religion, caste or creed.
Jinnah speech on August 11, 1947:
“I cannot make any well-considered pronouncement, but I shall say a few things as they occur to me” — it is considered a policy statement. He said:
… If you change your past and work together in a spirit that everyone of you, no matter to what community he belongs, … is first, second and last a citizen of this State with equal rights, privileges and obligations, there will be no end to the progress you will make. …we must learn a lesson from this [our past experience]. You are free; you are free to go to your temples, you are free to go to your mosques or to any other places of worship in this State of Pakistan. You may belong to any religion or caste or creed – that has nothing to do with the business of the state … we are starting in the days when there is no discrimination between one community and another, no discrimination between one caste, or creed and another. We are starting with this fundamental principle that we are all citizens and equal citizens of one State…. I think we should keep that in front of us as our ideal and you will find that in course of time Hindus would cease to be Hindus and Muslims would cease to be Muslims, not in the religious sense because that is the personal faith of each individual, but in the political sense as citizens of the state.
Unfortunate to say today’s Pakistan cannot have any non Muslim as its head of State and even Muslims do not have equal rights.
wo intezaar tha jiska, ye wo sahar to nahin.
ye wo sahar to nahin, jiski aarzoo lekar
chale the yaar ki mil jaayegi kahin na kahin
falak ke dasht me taaron ki aakhiri manzil.
abhi giraani-e-shab me kami nahin aai.
nijaate-deeda-o-dil ki ghadi nahi aai.
chale chalo ki wo manzil abhi nahin aai.
wo intezaar tha jiska, ye wo sahar to nahin.
ye wo sahar to nahin, jiski aarzoo lekar
chale the yaar ki mil jaayegi kahin na kahin
falak ke dasht me taaron ki aakhiri manzil.
abhi giraani-e-shab me kami nahin aai.
nijaate-deeda-o-dil ki ghadi nahi aai.
chale chalo ki wo manzil abhi nahin aai.





By Sheher Bano
Creating training opportunities keeping in mind the people with special needs is not only time consuming but also requires the courage to break old moulds. It also needs an out-of-box thinking to create something special for those who have challenging lives. It was with this thinking that Seemin Kanwal, a resident of North Nazimabad, got herself enrolled in AUTOCAD course at Karachi Tools, Dies, and Moulds Centre (KTDMC), Korangi, Karachi. Having done her MA Economic and BS in Computer Science, she teaches at the Ida Reu School for the Blind and Deaf, Karachi.
“Our students are already using computer and work on JAWS software which is a computer screen reader program that allows blind and visually impaired users to read the screen either with a text-to-speech output or by a refreshable Braille display. After doing this course, we want to convert it into Braille system, to aid in children’s learning.”
Seemin says that they are also working on a joint venture between Ida Reu School and KTDMC, where the trainers at the KTDMC will learn the sign language and then teach the children having hearing and speech impairment.
Her colleague, Fatima Mustafa, who also comes from Nazimabad, is a Braillist at Ida Reu School and writes books in Braille. She is also enrolled in AUTOCAD course. “We will develop Braille books for this course for students. Partially blind students can learn this course easily, while totally blind students will learn through Braille.”
These two girls who travel a distance of around 25-30 km daily which takes them one and a half hours daily to reach the centre, want to break away from the old norms: “Instead of the age-old skills like cane chair making, we want blind students to benefit from the new IT skills. The deaf students will learn it through sign language and will develop projects accordingly,” they implied.
“Our next plan is to teach special children here new and innovative ways of learning and getting gainfully employed,” says the Project Coordinator of TVET Sector Support Program (SSP) Courses and Controller of Academics, KTDMC, Syed Muhammed Shahzeb. “Since our’s is a teaching factory model, an environment of learning by doing will be provided to these students, to make them aware of the standards and procedures applicable in the industry. Besides, the institute has also started Google classrooms, where students can access their lectures etc through Google.”
KDMC has developed a 10-years database of students, which will help the industry to get access to the skilled workforce developed by the Institute. “We are sure that once the course gets completed, 75% of our students will be inducted within the industry,’ he added.
KTDMC started two six-month courses under TVET Sector Support Program ie AUTOCAD Level-II and Machinist, with 20 students in each course and having three batches for each trade.
The courses are part of a special training fund for Sindh and Balochistan, which was set up by the TVET Sector Support Programme, by European Union and Germany and Norwegian governments in order to prepare young people for the labour market. The fund supports training institutes to develop and provide tailor-made programmes for enterprises. The objective is to facilitate the training of 18, 000 men and women and assist them in finding employment after graduation.
Coming from adjoining areas of Korangi, Landhi and also as far as Orangi and North Karachi, majority of these students are doing these courses to increase their skill level for their current jobs. “My current salary is Rs 19,000, but AUTOCAD is a requirement of my job. After finishing this course, I expect a salary of Rs 25,000,” says Ghazanfer Abbas, working at Atlas Engineering as CNC Machine Operator.
In his early thirties, Ghazanfer is married with one daughter. To meet his growing family needs, he wants to get himself enrolled further in the CNC Programming after this course. “Though difficult to manage job and course simultaneously, but finally it will give me benefit of increment and promotion. The Teaching Factory Model of this course has given us an opportunity to develop our competency for the skill in the industry environment,” he said smilingly.





Most Dynamic Features of Udhaar App!
Udhaar App is the perfect business tool for a small-scale business owner as it provides various functions that aid in running and managing a business. Our aim is to provide business owners various features that can aid in everyday activities. Udhaar App provides a dynamic set of features that vary from recording and managing financial transactions to promoting business and its products to its customers. Some of the most dynamic and new features at Udhaar App are;
Reports & Accounts:
Udhaar App enables our users to record their daily transactions and manage all their accounts. While using Udhaar App our users can create separate accounts for each customer by adding their contact details, then they can add all transactions cash or credit for that specific customer. Business owners can also add day to day transactions which will not only be recorded but the changes in credit payments will be made on designated accounts of each customer. Our App also provides insights and reports of the accounts and customers which enables business owners in understanding financial situations of their business. It also provides them information which can help in the decision making process for the business owners and aid in growth of their businesses.
Udhaar Collection Reminders:
One of the most tiresome work to manage for business owners is to remember when they have to collect credit payments. Udhaar App eases the credit collection process as it not only reminds business owners for credit collection but it also has a feature to send free reminder messages via SMS or Whatsapp to the concerned creditors.
Promotional Marketing to customers:
Udhaar App also provides a very powerful promotional tool for its users as they can send promotional messages to their customers. We have enabled our customers to thrive in their businesses as they can share promotional deals, offers and discounts to their customers. Udhaar App also enables its customers to engage with all their customers by sharing a single message.
Multi-Language Support:
We care for our customers at most, our aim is to provide the most feasible and user-friendly interface. To ensure that our users in the local market can easily engage with the features of our application we provide a Multi-Language support interface. Udhaar App contains a dynamic four language interface which can be switched to English, Urdu, Sindhi and Roman Urdu.
Udhaar is a dynamic multi-featured App that has always cultivated new innovative features which not only provide ease in managing the business but also encourage our customers to grow their businesses. We constantly research to cultivate new features that empower our customers more. Currently, Udhaar family consists of five hundred thousand satisfied customers and we aim to help more customers grow their businesses.



The University of Engineering and Technology (UET), Lahore continues to climb the ladder of QS World Universities Ranking.
UET’s overall world ranking in Engineering & Technology stood at 451-500 in 2018 with no discipline ranked among the top-500 in the world. In 2019, the world ranking of the university in Engineering & Technology stood at 451-500, but it ranked among the top-500 category in two engineering categories. In Electrical Engineering, UET ranked 351-400 and in Mechanical Engineering it ranked 401-450 in the world. In 2020, the world ranking of the university in Engineering & Technology improved to 401-450. Further, the university’s world ranking in Mechanical Engineering improved to 301-350 and it ranked at 500 in the world in Computer Science. The world ranking of Electrical Engineering remained 351-400.This year, UET Lahore has jumped to 376 in the world in Engineering & Technology. It world rankings in Mechanical Engineering and Electrical Engineering have stood at 301-350 and 351-400, respectively. The university’s ranking has improved to 401-450 in the world in Computer Science. The Petroleum Engineering program ranks 51-100 in the world, which is the highest-ranking bracket that any university in the country has gained in any subject category. The latest rankings put UET at top raking in Petroleum Engineering and Mechanical Engineering in the country, third in Electrical Engineering, and fifth in Computer Science. Dr Syed Mansoor Sarwar, who was appointed as Vice Chancellor of UET Lahore in June 2019, said, “UET has highly qualified top-notch faculty with many Fulbright scholars and doctorate degree holders from USA, UK, Germany, Austria, Australia, and other technologically advanced countries and admits highest quality students. The university continues to offer most affordable engineering education in the country with lowest fee structure and generous financial aid to needy students through government programs such as Ehsaas and HEC need based scholarships, as well as through its own resources and substantial donations from its alumni. In spite of financial hardship that the UET has been facing for the past few years, the university makes every effort to not let any student leave the university due to financial hardship.” “The teachers and administration of the university have the resolve to work together to take UET Lahore to new academic heights,” Sarwar continued. UET Lahore is the only public sector UET in the nation that has consistently ranked among the best nationally and internationally and has a history of excellence that goes back almost 100 years. In spite of financial challenges, the university would continue to improve in all parameters of academics—teaching, research, publications, and quality of graduates—and become top ranked university in Pakistan and highly reputed in the world again in the years to come,” Sarwar added. He said that the administration has taken several steps for short- and long-term improvement of undergraduate education, graduate research and publication, infrastructure, and financial sustainability through a consultative process involving all university stakeholders.
UET Lahore
View All »
Career at UET
Featured Websites
Seminars
Sports



Fraudulent job offers:
Beware of fraudulent job offers
UN is aware of fictitious employment offers being circulated via email or originating from online job boards. Many of these schemes consist of an alleged offer of employment or contract with UN in return for the payment of fees or providing personal or banking information.
Please note that UN does not charge a fee at any stage of the recruitment process (application, interview, meeting, traveling, processing, training or any other fees).
Such fraudulent correspondence may appear legitimate: they may feature a UN or UN Agencies' logo, they may appear to originate from an official-looking email address or web site or they may be sent by individuals purporting to represent UN or an entity which includes the word UN in its name. These fraudulent schemes mislead individuals with the purpose to extract money and/or personal information.
UNDG/DOCO advertises its employment and procurement opportunities on its global websites (http://jobs.undp.org; http://procurement-notices.undp.org) or on the websites of its UN Country Teams (a list of which can be consulted here). Similarly UN Pakistan advertise its employment opportunities on its job portal (http://jobs.un.org.pk) or on respective agency's website (A list of agencies can be seen on UN Pakistan website).
Beware if an offer of employment looks too good to be true. Never divulge personal and banking information or send money if you are unsure of the authenticity of an email or other communication in the name of UN. If you are in doubt, please contact us for confirmation.
If you did mistakenly provide your information to a suspected fraudster, please report it to local law enforcement authorities or, if one of the two parties is based in the United States, to the Internet Crime Complaint Center for appropriate action.
Work with the United Nations to make Pakistan a better place.
The United Nations (UN) works to help the countries of the world cooperate in matters ranging from law and security to social progress and human rights. In Pakistan, 19 organisations affiliated with the UN work together for the most vulnerable people of Pakistan, supporting development and humanitarian assistance under the umbrella of the One UN - Delivering as One.
At UN Pakistan, you will have a unique opportunity to participate in decisions and actions that affect the lives of millions of Pakistanis.
We encourage all qualified men and women to apply for vacancies in UN Pakistan. We value efficiency, competence and integrity, and hire staff with suitable qualifications without distinction as to race, gender, religion or any other discriminating factor.



FAQ’s
I missed my session, can I register again?
Yes you can register again for the next session. Go to our website https://una.org.pk/japanese-5s-training/
I signed up but didn't get any link. What should I do?
Try registering for the next available session on our website. We have limited seats every month till June 2021 and they run out!
I missed the quiz during the session, will I still get the certificate?
No you have to complete the quiz, and attend the entire session to be eligible to receive the certificate. If you do not receive the certificate after the training it means that your quiz was incomplete or you did not fill it correctly. You will have to register for the next session.
I have some questions about the competition, who should I ask?
You can ask us by commenting on our facebook post related to 5S or instagram post related to 5S there. We will not be taking any questions on email or inbox! Only the comments!
For Facebook: https://facebook.com/una.org.pk
For Instagram: http://instagram.com/unap_official
For Facebook: https://facebook.com/una.org.pk
For Instagram: http://instagram.com/unap_official
Till when we we find out our about the results?
June 2021
Is there any age limit?
Upto 30 years old for students. No age restriction for teachers!




