


I want to get a new desktop computer, but I can not decide between a branded computer or an assembled computer, I think both have their plus points and minus points. How can I make it easy to decide which computer to choose from a branded or assembled computer. I need help from some forum members who are knowledgeable in the computer field.


Seeing that your computer requirements are basic then you need an branded computer, and assembled one would cost your more and would be of no special use seeing your requirements.


Get a branded one because they would keep all the drivers updated and carry a warranty besides being more trust worthy.


It would be best to get a branded computer because you would not be doing anything complicated, and because of your basic needs you would be able to choose any branded computer according to your budget. You would only require an assembled computer if you would be doing some programmming , heavy gaming etc.


I think branded computers are always best, as I find that the best hardware is always installed and if any problems you can refer to the computer brand company.




I live in Faisalabad and want a new broadband connection. My requirements are that the connection should give at least 15GB data each month and the connection should be stable. I don't think there is any point getting a connection which would give me more data but be unstable and give problems. So stability of the connection is a must. My budget is Rs1200 but it can exceed by R100 or Rs200 if need be. Please advise accordingly.


There are two options Wi Tribe and PTCL EVO 

The Wi Tribe connection is a 1mbps connection which gives unlimited data for Rs1600. The PTCL EVO connection gives a speed of 3.1mbps also with unlimited data but costs Rs2000.




I would like to know if there are any broadband connections which are under Rs1000 and provides at least 15Gb data per month. Even if 15GB is not available I would still like to see what all options there are available under Rs1000. Speed should be at least 1mbps.



Thank you all.


There are plans under Rs1000 but without knowing about your location I dont think there is any point posting information. Some service providers dont have services across the whole of Pakistan, and the details of the service providers in your particular location would be posted.


PTCL has some good plans which are under Rs1000, you should see both their wired and EVO packages.




It really depends what service you are using. Almost all service subscriptions will come with instructions but if you cant find instructions in the paperwork that came along then let me know what is it that you use and I would try and help you out with this.


 . can any one tell me how to schedule recording for an upcoming programme... and how to watch them and also how to watch 4days previous programmes. remind u its on PC


what service do u mean? i am using 4mb dsl broadband and just recently got smart tv, using win 7 64 bit ultimate. so...


You need to select the PVR function on your remote, from where you can record upcoming programs.


i m using it on pc what remote


A remote is provided with a PTCL Smart TV STB connection and that is the remote which allows you to change channels, set recordings etc. I am not sure about how to manage recording on a PC connection, but try logging into your PTCL account and see if there are any options there.


What is its price?




I need a new broadband connection for which I would mostly like to watch videos, but I want to to watch videos without the buffering, and need advise on which speed broadband connection I should get. I have not thought about the monthly tariff plan. So if there are any suggestions about a connection please mention.


I think to watch movies without buffering you need a connection of at least 1mbps and if you can get a 2mbps connection then nothing better than that...


1mbps is fine but at times you can get sudden pauses, for smooth viewing you really should have a 2mbps connection, especially if you plan to watch movies form You Tube.




I live close to the India Pakistan border and to be precise its about 1KM away. I have heard from people living near by me who visit India on a daily basis that the BSNL coverage is very good and you get excellent speed, another plus point for the BSNL EVDO connection is that there is an unlimited tariff plan to choose from as well.

Living close by to the BSNL exchange (BSNL exchange is very close to the Indian border side), I was wondering whether it would be a good idea getting a BSNL EVDO connection and using it in Pakistan. I am quite tempted to do this, but please advise the pros and cons of this and whether anyone else has tried the BSNL EVDO connection in Pakistan.


who use Indian Bsnl evdo in border areas. I find it hard to believe that it works but if you say so. We have cheaper prices in Pakistan as compared to Bsnl evdo in India. The unlimited plan you are talking about costs Indian Rs 750 per month which is about PKR1500 and that would give you a speed of less then 1mbps even though they advertise it as 3.1mbps by reading posts on indiabroadband.net shows that 1mbps is what they really get on a good day.



 There is another major drawback, you may just be using bsnl evdo for fun or just because you believe thats what works best for you but imagine being caught by ISI or even the police and they would send you to jail for life saying you are an Indian spy. My request to every one who is doing this is to stop it at once and get a connection from one of our own companies. PTCL evo is every where in Pakistan and we have cheaper rates and better speeds right here.


Come on Admin, you shouldnt say that! I didnt actually think it would be such a difference prce, then if what your saying is correct then I suppose it would be better choosing a connection from Pakistan itself.


Ofcourse you will be better of choosing a provider in Pakistan. PTCL offers much cheaper plans.




 they pay a lot more then we do in Pakistan and this night unlimited gone now. I think people earn a lot more in India then we do because I checked their prices in PKR and their prices are more then double and I wonder how they afford it out there.


I was lurking some Indian telecom sites and found that in India the state owned BSNL broadband has without notice to their customer have stopped all night unlimited plans and left users high and dry. They will all have to shell out thousands of rupees for the data they have used at night. Some of the BSNL night unlimited customer have downloaded huge amounts and are afraid that they will recieve massive bills.



 I am glad we in Pakistan do not have such trouble atleast for the time being.


I think they must have done it due to network congestion most probably. The night unlimited was most probably being used for torrents download by majority of customers and that as we all know breaks the back bone of any infrastructure. More then 70% traffic of the world is from torrents and most of it illegal content sharing. It is not like I dont do it myself but just for argument sake this looks like the most likely reason.


Salman  they have other unlimited plans that they can switch to but a little more costly then the ones with night unlimited. I think they wont get billed for the time they were not intimated because it would be illegal would it not? It is common sense nothing complicated.


That to me looks like the most likely reason too. But when we can have such generous FUP in Pakistan at a lot lower prices then why cant they? I find it strange.


Ha ha ha I just went to read the whole thread. It is like taking fish out of the water. I feel for them but some how it makes me laugh aswell. I hope we in Paskistan do not get into such a situation with PTCL.




Dear guys, I have a question. Please help me out as this has been giving me aggressive OCD in the past few days. I am not very tech savvy so don't mind if i sound stupid.

I have Wateen cable internet and TV service. They provide a coax cable to the home. The coax cable goes into a 1 to 2 splitter (it says -3.5db at both the outputs of the splitter). One output goes into the cable modem (via another coax cable) and the other output goes into an LED TV’s analogue input (via another coax cable). A couple of days ago I had an issue with my service so decided to troubleshoot myself. To test the signals, I plugged in the cable (from the cable provider) directly to my LED TV’s analogue input (without the splitter). Now I am worried that plugging the cable directly to the LED TV (bypassing the splitter) may have damaged the LED TV in some way etc. Please help me out!


If there would have been any damage you would have noticed it by now. I wont suggest trying such stuff yourself and instead get your cable operator to sort out whatever problems you are facing.




I am in search for a digital cable TV connection in Karachi. I have an HD TV so need a good digital cable connection, the local cable connection is not good enough.



PTCL Smart TV is an option but I dont quite like their picture quality and service, so PTCL is not an option.



If it helps I have listed the kind of channels I want, so suggestions can be given according to them.



Star Movies, AXN, Star world

ARY Digital, HUM TV, Geo Entertainment , Express, TV one,

Masala Channel (Cooking),

Nat geo, Discovery, Health TV

Ary news, Sama, Dawn news, Geo news, Dunya news, Express news

Star sports 1,3,4, Ten sports


Seeing your requirement of channels it is best that you go for DWN TV, although it only has two HD channels.




which is the best package for calling on offnet numbers through any network in pakistan?


i need information about prepaid.


For what kind of connection is it for a prepaid or postpaid?


The service provider which has the lowest offnet calls is Mobilink, followed by Ufone, Zong, Telenor and then Warid.


Surprising I thought Zong provided the cheapest off net calls. Any idea to how much of a difference there is between Zong and Ufone?


There is not much of a difference between the two, but like mentioned Ufone is slightly better than Zong and better than these is Mobilink.




I dont know much about routers and technology things so the question I have may sound silly, but here we go. I have an extra wifi router and I was thinking that if I also got that connected to my LAN connection some how then would it increase the wifi range of the connection? Please also advise what all extra products I would need for this to happen.


I don't seem to understand what exactly what you are trying to say. You have a wired connection and you want to know that if you connect the wired connection to a wifi router whether it would increase the wifi range? Well yes it would! If there is something I am not understand please explain the query in detail.


You can use this router as a repeater but you will have to connect this router with the one that is already in use with a cable. You will then be able to extend the wifi coverage area by keeping the second router in an area that has no or little signal strength.



