


Chances of Rain from Friday onwards till Tuesday in several upper parts including KP, Islamabad, Kashmir, GB & Upper Punjab. 
Rest of Country will stay mostly dry


dry








Below Normal rains in most of sub continent


What about Lahore ...!


20% Few chances of rain will persist


any idea about  a good weather app


accu weather is most accurate app that i know , have you tried that?







Ploutry










Manage








Mobiles repairing


 more info inbox me


blog writing


blog writing is good. you can work as a freelancer




Let’s see what happens when people allow others to make their own decisions instead of trying to convince them to follow your agenda.


Very informative.

I used to chain smoke during my student's life. Two Bundles of BIDI,27 and Panama having twenty cigarettes.

The day I realised after completing my education that I have to return home. What elders in society will feel about me. I immediately left smoking. Never smoked throughout my life.


Good awareness work WHO.

But what about those non-smokers, kids, vulnerable people and elders who are inhaling unhealthy air with particulate matter PM 10, PM 2.5 and PM < 1 .

Air Pollution is the next pandemic kind of, the world is about to face sooner.


The research also concluded that the difference between a death smoker and a death nonsmoker is that the nonsmoker is healthier.


Talk about SMOKE and mirrors deflection...

 What happens when you STOP being able to FEED your family due to economic terrorism by a CULT of insane technocrats who deem STARVATION and HUNGER acceptable while claiming HEALTH matters?


I was thankful to be raised in a religion that taught me that smoking was bad, so I don’t have to worry about addiction. Thankful for my good values.


Tell me something if i don't wanna quit, then what steps should I take?


Ever wonder why they allow the country access to buy it well because they get paid and if they take it away thousands of ppl will get crazy and stress out and it would be like toilet paper in covid times.


But there are just so many things besides smoking. Like sleep deprivation, targeted by high pitch microwave frequency targeted the head heart and body, drinking, haze with pm2.5, exhaust from a motor vehicle, high alcohol content beverages, food cooked in high temperatures etc.


I am a nonsmoker and I don't know why I see Advertisement to Stop Smoking.


Congrats



. Remember...do not think you can have one just because you quit a while. I quit for 3 years, had a cig then smoked for 20 more years. Cold turkey is way to go.


I smoked for 16 years and have been clean 10+ years now! Will be glad to hit the 15 year mark. I just decided to stop one day and never picked another up. I still have cravings at certain times so I’m not sure that ever goes away.


Hmm I wonder how many people in
 ( - whooo ) have shares in the tobacco company . We live in a world plagued by products designed to take away our health and that’s perfectly legal. They say prevention is better than cure but there is no cure for cancer , is there . There’s something terribly wrong with the world . I am happy to say that I am one of those who have conquered the habit . And have made it pass the 15 yr mark but the tragic reality is I can never get back the years that was lost and neither will anyone else who falls victim to that nasty habit.


I'm a non-smoker ut someone told me to smoke and drink... I get natural dopamine from the blue light of this gadget. Is that fine enough or can be dangerous like smoking??


I stopped smoking for 2 years and went back on it after I was accused of smoking while I was not. Good and congratulations to those who's quiet.


Great job. Congratulations


I was a smoker for 35 + years. Didn't think I could stop but hypnotherapy worked for me. No cravings, no desire to smoke. Its now 19 months.


This is what happens when you stop smoking.


Wot drug or injections can i use to stop smoking. I realy need to.


Do you have statistics of Targeted individual all over the world of what they usually suffer from?




Despite this knowledge people continue.with sad consequences.




???


Whats your budget?


My budget is under 20k.




Blood components


Plasma. Plasma constitutes 55% of total blood volume. ...
White Blood Cells. There are between 6,000 and 8,000 white cells per cubic millimetre of blood. ...
Platelets. Platelets, or thrombocytes, are smaller than the red and white blood cells. ...
Red Blood Cells.


Blood is both a tissue and a fluid. It is a tissue because it is a collection of similarly specialized cells that serve particular functions. These cells are suspended in a liquid matrix (plasma), which makes the blood fluid.


Recall that blood is a connective tissue. Like all connective tissues, it is made up of cellular elements and an extracellular matrix. The cellular elements—referred to as the formed elements—include red blood cells (RBCs), white blood cells (WBCs), and cell fragments called platelets.


Blood is considered a connective tissue because it has a matrix. The living cell types are red blood cells, also called erythrocytes, and white blood cells, also called leukocytes. ... Erythrocytes (red blood cells), the predominant cell type, are involved in the transport of oxygen and carbon dioxide.


Blood is a fluid connective tissue that consists of plasma, blood cells and platelets. It circulates throughout our body delivering oxygen and nutrients to various cells and tissues. It makes up 8% of our body weight.




Having full of Patience shouldn't mean having no actions.

Patience is meant to act with utmost intelligence and discipline when things aren't moving in the right direction.



Patience in time of lows doesn't mean to sit back and expect things to turn favorable by it's own.

Taking steps everyday is important, irrespective of how small they are. This brings continuity to the process of achieving the set vision.



Patience always works best with actions, and a combination of the two possess the potential to take one to the highest level.


Great post brother. And very TRUE. Stay blessed.


Absolutely right my friend!!


Great sir!


Thank you so much brother. Hope you'r safe and doing great.....




Great thanks


Respect


A phobia is a often-Not-reality fear of wealth, person, animal, action or situation. This could be known as a disease in the car. A person with terror tries to prevent what makes her fear. Otherwise it will suffer from a lot of anxiety and suffering. Fear is extremely normal but her fear is growing up to the sick conditions right now.



The physical symptoms that can be seen in phobia are,



• Increasing the heart beat

• The difficulties of breathing

• The pain in the chest

• Shake hands and feet

• The body up and the cold is the same.



The main disease of a person with a phobia situation is the main disease,

Thinking about anything in the way. The symptoms of different events, people, places, etc, and the experience of the experience they are facing, the problems of the experience that are facing them, which are facing various reasons to avoid those moments are known.

The 5th anniversary of mental illness, the American Psychology Association has taken some of the most common terror in the 5th edition of mental illness and the number of mental effects.



SPECIAL phobia USUALLY BELONG TO 5 common groups, according to the diagnostic and physical human being. That's what you have to do.



1. Animals related to animals (Spider, cockroach, cats, animals)

2. Fear related to natural environment (Height, thunder, darkness)

3. Terror related to blood, wounds or financial problems (vaccination, broken bones)

4. Terror related to special occasion (flying, driving, driving, driving)

5. Other (breathing, drowning)



A survey made by the British journalist of technology trust source 1998 has been revealed among the most common terror.

Acrophobia - the fear of the high

Aerophobia - fear to fly

Arachnophobia - the fear of the fish

Autophobia - the fear to be alone

Claustrophobia - the fear of limited or public spaces

Homophobia - fear of blood

Hydrophobia - the fear of the water

Ophidiophobia - the fear of snake

Zoo phobia - the fear of animals



There are lots of different phobia. Only a few of the most common phobia are mentioned above.

Reasons for phobia

The effect of a photo, the environment can be known as the main reason for this. If the mother shows a situation for the cause of an environment, the child will also be natural.

The Treatment of the terror

If you want to get treatment for your terror, you must meet a qualified man. The Most effective treatment is the most effective treatment for the phobia, especially for the phobia. But sometimes there are opportunities for drugs.

In the early times, the small phobia, you will be lost automatically. If not, you can also keep the sick situation in a control of the moments that are not being afraid of the times. But if they continue to be missed so it can last longer.


Thanks for sharing such nice information.




What is the best TV under 1 lac in 50-55' size in Pakistan? My eyes are on TCL C715 50'. Is there any other better option?Anyone having experience with tcl OR WITH THIS specific model how much reliable are they ?


Hi



TCL is best these days in term of Quality and the Price . Last month i purchased 10P8 LED 0178rr for 62000 Pkr and it is very good.




1.Loritadyn 10mg od 10/7


Doxycycline100mg be 5/7
Erythromycin 500mg TDS 5/7
Add triple action cream(skineal cream) bd


Please suggest.


Loratidine tabs


Antihistamine


Tab lorin

1+1

Inj Avil


Firstly itching depends on a different disease, scabies, fungus effect on skin so antifungal drugs act ...when allergy occurs then antihistamine act on this case.







Actually, nowadays, It is not much valued. But if you do it will not have any issue in your job as a govt employ.


degree value but skills more than degree sir

in Pakistan




Mycology is the study of?



A.Algea

B.Fungi

C.Monocots

D.Dicots 



Answer: Fungi


What is total secret agencies of pakistan ?

(A) 17

(B) 24

(C) 19

(D) 26 

Answer: 24



1,2,3,5,8,13,.......Next comes?

A.19

B.21

C.23

D.25 

Answer: 19




Hey Everyone!



Since we are getting closer to a new year, I have decided to look for some beauty supplements, particularly those that benefit the skin & hair So my question's about..



What supplements would you recommend for beautiful, clear, glowing skin & for Shiny Hairs?



I've researched and read about probiotics, zinc, vitamin c and all that but I still can't make up my mind.



I am looking forward to your suggestions where can I get original products for glowing skin & shiny hairs??


Yes









Great to watch two future stars in one frame, Babar is really graceful player, his cover drive is really perfect & pleasant to watch, timing is magical & superb placement. You are the beauty of cricket. Love to watch Legend


Pakistan took a 2-1 series lead as they defeated South Africa by nine wickets in the third T20I, registering their highest successful run chase in T20Is.



The architects of Pakistan's spectacular win were openers Babar Azam and Mohammad Rizwan – who shared a record 197-run opening stand.

It was primarily a Babar show as the Pakistan captain slammed his maiden T20I ton – becoming only the third batsman from his country to score a hundred in the format. It was also the fastest T20I century for Pakistan as Babar brought it up in just 49 balls. 

He was brilliantly supported by Rizwan, who scored an unbeaten 73.



Earlier in the day, after being asked to bat, South Africa openers Aiden Markram and Janneman Malan gave them a sensational start, stitching together a 108-run partnership in just 10.3 overs.

The in-form Markram dispatched Hasan Ali for 4,4,6,4 to help Proteas reach fifty in the fifth over. The duo kept on with the onslaught against the Pakistani bowlers, who were kept under pressure since ball one. However, Markram perished to Mohammad Nawaz on 63.

George Linde received a promotion to bat at number three after his exploits in the second game. He was cruising at 22 off 11 but chopped one on to the stumps off Faheem Ashraf.



Malan reached his maiden fifty but fell soon after, giving Nawaz his second wicket. South Africa captain Heinrich Klaasen too departed quickly, losing his wicket after he inside-edged the ball onto the stumps.

In the death, Rassie van der Dussen (34*) and Phehlukwayo (11) joined forces to take South Africa to a daunting total of 203/5 in their 20 overs.

Halfway through the match, South Africa looked to have the upper hand but the Centurion’s record of being a ground difficult to defend at loomed above.

The South African fears came to life as the Pakistan openers, Babar and Rizwan manufactured a relentless opening partnership of 197 runs.



Babar scored his first T20I hundred on the same day when he overtook Virat Kohli to become the No.1 ODI batsman. His sensational knock of 122 runs from 59 deliveries was studded with 15 fours and four sixes and is the highest individual score for Pakistan in the format.

His partnership with Rizwan was broken in the 18th over by Lizaad Williams when Pakistan were just seven runs away from a victory.

They didn't have to wait long though as Fakhar Zaman slammed back-to-back fours to take Pakistan home.

The series now moves to its fourth and final T20I on 16 April.



