


Why wait?  Honest companies need protection from those that are less scrupulous.  There will always be those that cut corners, or ignore inconvenient facts, as the Grenfell inquiry shows.  How can you compete and stay honest?


As far as this "government" is concerned Covid will never be "over".


The government may have created a "COVID" crisis when there wasn't one.
De Pfeffel claims the benefits of the "vaccines" outweigh the risks.
But even de Pfeffel cannot see into the future: 
1. We cannot yet know the risk of the genetically engineered inoculum producing prions and causing a human version of scrapie.
2. We cannot yet know the degree to which 'leaky' "vaccines" of this sort select for more virulent mutants causing human version of Marek's disease.
Let de Pfeffel seek advice from Dr Classen of Manchester about scrapie and Dr van den Bossche of Brussels about Marek's disease and then come back to us . . .


@Jxxn Marks 
Prions are versions of normal proteins that fold incorrectly and induce more of the normal protein to do the same.  The covid spike protein is not a normal human protein so there is no scope for it to do any harm by causing one of our own proteins to misfold.


Doubt there will be any changes over directors responsibilities, too many MP's happy to take directors fees and would hate for once in there lives to have to take responsibility.


"The Government says these rules will apply only to serious failures in the largest firms (though not just to FTSE-listed companies) and is a genuine consultation with no decisions yet taken. In that case, they should wait until the Covid crisis is over."
There has never been legislation passed in haste by a Government that was not subsequently used for a purpose other than for which we were assured it was intended and no more!
Here, the fundamental problem is the audit and auditors not the directors!
These measures only leave one questioning what use is an audit and worse still the most likely outcome is audit costs increasing but only the directors being held liable because they relied upon employees or auditors to produce accounts etc.


And here it is. The editor of one of the largest and most important newspapers in the UK promoting a false narrative and misinformation. 

IT is NOT the primary responsibility of the external Auditor and the audit firms legal (let alone moral) responsibility to ensure that a company or business to ensure that the businesses' accounts are "properly kept"as the DT refers to it.

This responsibility remains and always has been that of the directors of the Company. There responsibility is set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities (which has always been in every set of accounts prepared for at least 40 years) and more recently in the various parts of the Annual Report dealing with Corporate Governance and sections of Company Law.

Whilst the audit process may be flawed or poorly performed relative to the international standards that Govern the process, it is fact the media and politicians who routinely fail to understand where responsibility lie. Indeed it is the concept of Limited Liability that has always protected directors from the impact of business failure except in very specific circumstances where UK Company law allows Government officials to investigate and punish individual directors. The new proposals expand on this process to allow the Government to widen the corporate regime whereby directors get punished for their mistakes


@Nxxxxxxs Brough 
Read my post supra and stop trying to excuse auditors for failing to do the job for which they are very handsomely paid!
One assumes you are an auditor or otherwise have an axe to grind.


@Fxxxxn Manson @Nxxxxxxs Brough I'm not an Auditor and have no axe to grind BUT the Directors' are ultimately responsible for the preparation of the annual financial statements NOT the auditor. Admittedly, the auditing techniques applied, especially in relation to the review of post Balance Sheet Events is frequently lamentable and stiff penalties should be applied to those who fail to adequately perform this role.

The old Kingston Cotton Mill (1986 case) still holds true in Common Law that "the Auditor is a watchdog NOT a bloodhound". This may appear to be an outdated view in this modern age but it is not part of the Auditors role to seek and root out fraud. The adoption of sound auditing principles and techniques should alert a good Auditor to circumstances which would suggest that the accounts do not form a true and fair view.

If there is a failure on the Auditors part, it is often their  reluctance to make an appropriate statement within the context of the Audit Report to alert the reader of the accounts to the fact that they have misgivings and reservations about some aspect within the financial statements.

Fraud cases which have come to Court have usually put the blame for any shortfalls either on the shoulders of the Directors or a senior officer within the company. It's very rare that any fraud perpetrated is without the knowledge of one or more Directors. After all most frauds usually convey some form of financial benefit to the perpetrators and the individuals who are inclined to benefit the most are usually the Directors who receive very generous bonuses and/or share option(s) for meeting certain performance criteria. 

There are some auditing firms who should be hauled over the coals because of their repeated failure to undertake a comprehensive audit and we need to give careful consideration to how we should deal with such firms/individuals. Unfortunately there are only a handful of firms capable of auditing a FTSE 100 company.




.


The corona crisis may be only just beginning:
https://www.ukcolumn.org/ukcolumn-news/uk-column-news-17th-march-2021 [first 10 mins]
We urgently need to review this hasty roll-out of emergency "vaccines" - especially as corona is no threat to the young and healthy.
Parliament needs to repeal the corona regulations next Thursday: there are no more excuses not to.


Why shouldn't company directors be held liable?  Now's as good a time as any to start concentrating their minds.


The reality is that the audit firms have become corrupted by the conflation of audit work with consultancy work. 
The solution is to place regulatory limits on the ability of audit firms to avoid liability through their contracts with companies being audited. The audit firm itself should carry liability for failures of auditing to properly identify financial issues.


@IxN BIO your ignorance of the process and the legal situation shows through. Audit contracts have unlimited liability for audit work; the liability is due to the Company being audited (but not there shareholders or directors individually). Further as a regulated industry audit form are subject to fines and individual partners and staff may be subject to bans and other sanctions including personal fines. the regime is actually far more onerous that that which faces individual directors.


Johnson really is proving to be an atrocious PM in pretty much every single respect. NO WAY I will ever vote for that man again.


One wonders how many ex employees of auditing companies now find themselves riding on the Westminster gravy train.?


@Kxxxh Scarborough 
A lot, and even more in the Insolvency Service with its revolving door!


If auditors condcentrated just on audits not all the other paraphernalia imposed by governments that would help massively. 

Equally, now we are outside the EU we need to move outside IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) which have been responsible for so many of the problems - not that the woke lovery would ever admit it.

I would hate to be a Director or Auditor of a construction company these days. Not that anyone ever knew what the right result would be - at least in the good old days (sorry) you were required to make prudent provision for all possible losses.

NOW you are not. You have to put a figure on the balance sheet which represents some probablistic based outcome of various loss scenarios. The one thing you defintiely know is that it is not any number that is reocgnisable to the contract. SO you have a 30% chance of loss of £300k, 30% chance of a loss of £400k and 40 % chance of a loss of £500k. In  the old days you would have provided £500k, now you provide £410k. Doh.

Just once example of these ridiculous accounting standards that mean accounts are no longer prudent.

Remember the financial crisis, the rules then allowed you to "cut up" a piece of paper worth £500k into three pieces which indiividually were worth £700k and then record a profit of £200k by just doing that. Doh.


@Rxxxxxd Hughes At a fundamental level, there is little difference between how long term contracts as=re accounted for under IFRS and old UK GAAP. The most significant different, in my opinion at least, is under old UK GAAP auditors were given much more allowance to apply their own judgement as to what was "true and "fair accounting.

Under IFRS, the basis is much more American/European and sets out a standard accounting treatment style approach where the accounts need to comply with the standard. Once you are satisfied that compliance has been achieve, the end result is "correct" even if you judge that the end position looks unrealistic in some way.

IFRS and a lot of modern accounting also incorporates the concept of Market valuation much more widely than old UKM GAAP ever did. In most instances, market valuation doesn't mean looking at market prices (which often don't exist) but undertaking a valuation process which is complex and often very judgemental.

You are right about "prudence" though. IFRS is designed to ensure any set of accounts is prepared on as similar basis as possible and that the end result is "right". Old UK GAAP also required accounts to be prudently prepared, which also meant that any judgements made should be on a conservative basis. IFRS doesn't include this objective in the same way, allowing company directors to take a more aggressive set of judgements so long as they remain within the standard.

In the real world, the directors, management and auditors very often have to make judgements on how situations will turn out in the future. This is always a subjective process and depends on the approach taken by  the directors.


Why is honesty in business - called "saddling companies with extra responsibilities."?
Aspiration to honest dealing used to be the norm.


"...the audit definition is to be extended beyond a company's financial results to check if they have confirmed to targets for reducing carbon emissions..."

Oh, give us a break.  The point of an audit is to enable the bean counters' report to be published via Companies House (regardless of how out of date it may then be) so as to enable anyone wishing to engage in profitable trading activity with that company to check on its financial history if they so choose. Only a tiny minority would be remotely interested in checking those records to find out whether those same bean counters have given it a tick or a cross in relation to the extent of its worship of the green religion. And this has come from a Conservative government...


Accounting errors - or systematic deception?
Everyone now suffers.
Wrong time for this.


@Sxxxn Coulter 
The politicians and civil servants do not understand the difference!


So what you're telling us is that with government borrowing at unprecedented levels, we should go on using even more taxpayer's money to prop up zombie companies because auditors haven't done the job they're paid for.

Well, yes.  I mean, we wouldn't want auditors to have to lose out, would we?  Let alone actually bear some responsibility for their costly written assurances.

No, no.  That's what taxpayers and pension fund shareholders are there for.


The real issue is the vagueness of IFRS, and their focus on mark to market accounting. So "profits" do not reflect cash flow. Directors will just resign.


@sxxxe brown Hear, hear but the woke big four would never admit that as they pushed so hard for their introduction. Strange since they are biting them hard.


The Covid crisis is over, except that the Government think it is politically expedient to drag out lockdown. The dragging out of this lockdown will do 1000 times more damage to Britain than the failure of Patisserie Valerie and Carillion.
The Government and SAGE deserve be held to account far more than any set of Auditors, but they will all get knighthoods, whilst the rest of us suffer the consequences of their actions.



