


We have always been disappointed when, passing through Thiefrow, if none of our valuables have been stolen from our luggage. Thieves have more expensive tastes than we do.

A third runway for Heathrow is fruitless, vandalistic.


Putting everything in the south east corner of Britain is a remarkably daft thing to do.


It needs to be remembered that by billion to one miracle, a number of air disasters have been narrowly averted at Heathrow. 

A Concorde ran out of fuel shortly after landing,; it couldn’t even taxi to the terminal. A 747 missed hitting the Penta Hotel by 12 feet when trying to land in fog. Both engines failed on a B777 due to ice ingestion as it came into land, the aircraft stalled and crashed short of the runway but within the perimeter. A minute earlier and it would have crashed in Hounslow High Street.

There have been other near accidents. If any of those had happened, no one would be talking about a third runway.


The people behind a third runway at Heathrow have been disingenuous.

This is not just another runway being built, but another Gatwick airport complete with terminals. People are being displaced to accommodate this expansion, and those left will face greater pollution. Since when did adding another lane on the M25 cut pollution for instance?

Regardless of the Supreme Court ruling, the runway will never be built. The People will not allow it and the violent protests will make the project untenable.


Another runway for Heathrow.  HS2 on the go.
Have any of the supporters of these schemes thought about the effects on the people of London, especially West London.  HS2 have advised that when the thing really starts there will be more than 500 lorries a day trundling around local roads, I'll say that again :- 500 lorries per DAY.
There are at least 20 schools within a three mile radius of the rail line and numerous old peoples homes. Who is monitoring the pollution levels, HS2?  How many will die and who is it that will care.  The local Hillingdon Council has campaigned against this nonsense for years.
Who is a local MP?  A certain Boris Johnson.
When the third runway starts there will be identical traffic problems towards the South West of London.  Who is the MP who promised to lie down in front of the bulldozers,  a certain Mr Boris Johnson.
When you add the current pollution from the M25 which will increase hugely both temporarily during construction and permanently when the runway becomes operational to the fact that Hillingdon already has the highest per capita car ownership in London it is obvious the the western quarter of London will become uninhabitable.
In a week when there has been legal precedent to the killing of a young girl in London by pollution, who in all conscience could think that any of this should happen in our capital city.


It should have been built in Birmingham ... 1h to london (HS2) about the same as heathrow and rapid access to the rest of the country unlike heathrow.


@Jxxn Duckworth

Or better still Doncaster where the runway can already take any aircraft flying. Think what that would do for the (so called) Northern Powerhouse (what drivel!!). Doncaster offers a fast direct service to Kings X but equally important with (some of) the £ used for HS2 (another stupid decision), fast access to the North, West and Eastern parts of the country could be made available and open up the North country for trade and tourist traffic.


But isn't flying by air destroying the environment? Isn't the government levying a large tax on people who choose to do so? Wouldn't it be the case that were they really serious about reducing air travel they wouldn't ever consider a third runway for Heathrow. 
Or are those in power just hypocritical, cynical and mendacious?
I personally am not against flying. I just hate duplicity.


@Txxxy Snowball
Flying by air is not destroying anything.
The safest and least polluting form of long distant travel.
We travel by air because the alternative is not attractive.
However, this LHR 3rd Runway scheme is complete rowlocks and everyone can see that.
Building over the M25?   That will work a treat!


Circular runways as mentioned, maybe the answer!


@Fxxxxxs Forbes
Underground runways maybe.


If the government is not required to take net-zero carbon targets into account there would appear to be little point in having them?Or is that just me being a silly old sausage?


Heathrow 3rd runway - I do hope tickets are sold so we can see the blondclown lying down in front of a Caterpillar but I'm sure that promise will be yet another empty gesture.

50 years ago a Tory Govt failed to build a new airport nr Aylesbury then didn't build Maplin and subsequently at other locations in the Thames Estuary.

In 1994 a perfectly good alternative hub airport could have been built at the former USAF Upper Heyford which is less than 2m from the M40 and alongside 2 railway lines. Once built it would have grown to supplement & then supplant Heathrow. AFAIAW that project was never seriously discussed.

A chronic lack of political will to make what are to start with painful decisions afflicts both parties but esp the Tory party who's latest cop-out over home building in the South will only make sense in the light of their manifesto commitment to levelling up the regions if they also get truly serious about moving Govt offices to the regions. 

Allied to that they should abandon the horrendous cost of restoring the Parliamentary estate close the HoP which is a great site for hotel upmarket residential conference centre museums & cultural space and build a new Parliament in the centre of the country in Birmingham. HoL reform can go hand in hand to get rid of mates and political appointees hereditary peers and bishops with a democratic 2nd chamber of 1/4 of the no's of the HoP serving 7 year tenures.


........ how nice of the Supreme Court to decide our future for us ....how did we ever manage...?

         ........... we are firmly on the road to ruin...racked with fear of a near harmless virus....

Build your runway.....it will soon be reclaimed by the daisies ....


90% of business travel is a complete waste of money....I know this because I have clocked up a couple of million air miles in my life and I can't think of more than a handful of trips that were really necessary. Another runway is a waste of money.


"... new challenges on the grounds of environmental impact will be raised, with the airport required to show the project complies with the UK’s climate change obligations."
I wonder how they'll manage that.


In light of the near decimation of Global aviation this decision has missed the boat.
Gatwick has just about closed due to lack of traffic.
This has all the makings of another hubris project, just like HS2.


A shameful betrayal of of those who live all around Heathrow - and sites like Manston which could be an amazing hub airport lies empty....


@Sxxxxxn Roots
Manston, a hub airfield? Perhaps your little joke.
Just move the freight out of Heathrow to Lyneham and build a proper freight hub.


Please DT, no more articles on the Heathrow runway until spades actually hit the ground.
We've been reading about this and commentating on it FOR DECADES... and it NEVER HAPPENS!!!!!


Unfortunately, Bois won't cough for it. Palindromic painful fundament and 'er indoors have vetoed it.


Really? Air travel is  passe.  Highly likely to go to the wall.


Gatwick was always the answer for another runway, not Heathrow.
Boris, Starmer and the Libs are against a 3rd runway at Heathrow. Funny how democracy works..


@Txxxxxxxxxxs Zilmar The fact is Gatwick has had a second runway for years.  It is referred to as a parallel taxiway (to the main runway) to be used in "emergencies".


Heathrow is an antiquated hellhole.  Every access to it is gridlocked and you bank on at least half an hour stacked when arriving or an hour on the tarmac when departing.  It's a 50s planning error sustained artificially by retail,

The so called third runway is in reality a separate airport on the other side of the A4 which with a runway physically on top of the busiest motorway junction in Europe (M4/M25) is a recipe for yet more misery.

Yet unfortunately the government is involved so like the NHS and HS2 it will be preserved forever no matter the economic damage


I really thought this government would look to expand international capabilities north of the Watford Gap before serving London and the South East again.
Silly me.......


@Lxn RMaC Yes, silly you.  And there are so many existing or ex-wartime airfields that could be expanded/activated.


@R Lindsey @Lxn RMaC
Hub airports are just that.
The main concern is what the airlines want and/or need.
I have seen no information on this most vital of subjects.


The only question that I have on this is why only one extra runway? The third runway is what we need now and does not take into consideration growth that will take place in the future. A fourth will mean we have the capacity to cope with demand many decades hence and put us ahead of much of the competition.


Rather Heathrow expansion (and other airports as well) than HS2.  It will be much better investment. 

2018 Govt figures say only 2% of all journeys were by rail.  If you want to increase that, bring back steam and play to tourism.  HS2 won't do it.


@Dxxxk Clews Do not project from pre-Covid traffic.  Extrapolate from WFH and business travel will fade out.  Holiday flights, if they ever re-start, are best from regional airports.  Maybe too, the effect of aircraft on global warming will be considered.


Now the DT is following the Government in inserting 'Global Britain' into every article. I suppose we can expect English language courses for 'foreigners' to join the madness: 
'Hello Jacques, do you like Global Britain?  'Yes, I arrived in Global Britain yesterday. I went to the local supermarket and bought some biscuits made in Global Britain. Then I took a bus made in Global Britain to my hostel where I read about the achievements of Global Britain.' etc.


It is a shame that the Daily Telegraph has become so London and South East centic as a national newspaper.

I have no problem with the Editoral on Heathrow. However the double standards and hypocrisy in respect of the attitude of the DT to HS2, which finally brings world class infrastructure North of Watford, is staggering.  It has fought tooth and nail against HS2 with completely biased coverage. The same arguments it has against HS2 are now deemed to be fine for Heathrow. It calls for connectivity across the globe from Heathrow (Like HS1 down to the South of France), yet rails against the connectivity that HS2 provides in our own country - try getting a train from Leeds to Birmingham. 

Time to re-engage with infrastructure across most of our own country.


@Nxxxl Davies
Totally agree!


Even with the will I doubt this will ever be built. Terminal five took 15 years from concept to opening: nine years legal and planning, five years construction.


And then we were promised "that's it".


Boris Airport in the Thames Estuary please. 
Heathrow a dinosaur. Gatwick badly place except if you live in south London or adjacent counties. 
Time we spent on infrastructure throughout the country.


Just get on with it. The future prosperity of this country depends upon it. The amount of time that is wasted because of Nimbyism is staggering.


@Txn Vere
Cliche No.1 : "....Global Britain..."  
Cliche No.2 : " ....The future prosperity of this country depends upon it..." 
Cliche No.3 :  "Nimbyism" ....
Let's guess that you live nowhere near Heathrow airport and that you are John Holland Kaye ...?


@Kxxxxn May Anyone who lives near or on the outskirts of Heathrow Airport knew the risks when they bought their property - presumably at a lower price than they would have paid elsewhere. I'm afraid I have no sympathy now that the situation has changed and the country as a whole needs a larger airport in order to prosper.


Get it built and create another runway at Gatwick as well.  Connect the two by a dedicated underground line. Global Britain or what Boris!


@Jxxxs Taylor
No underground connection. Visitors to Global Britain must be forced to take a bus between Heathrow and Gatwick so the can see the achievements of Global Britain.



