


So the sub editors like the spelling of extention


Why not just use cod liver oil or is that unsophisticated???


The comment below is accurate about the efficacy of the sun in the UK. Also, darker skinned people as well as older people need more time in the summer sun to produce vit D3.
But nowhere in the article is Vitamin D3 mentioned. The supplements people take must be D3 and state D3. D3 is what is produced by the skin under UV rays. D2 is what comes from vegetables and is not as good as D3.
When are journalists going to educate themselves? I rarely see an article that mentions D3. They are just mention D.


If you are going to bother doing an article on Vit D at least get your facts right.

1.  Vit D from the sun in the northern hemisphere (eg UK) can only be accessed from late March to early Oct.

2.  Vit D can only be accessed between 10.00 and 14.00 in the northern hemisphere (eg UK)

3.  The older you are the greater the time in the sun is required to give you the same Vit D as for a younger person.

4.  If all you expose is your face and forearms you need almost 3 hours of sun exposure to get the correct levels of Vit D.

5.  Sunscreen blocks all Vit D from being made in the body.


And, supplementation is really important in northern hemispheres, and I take 10,000 iu every day between early October and late March.


@Wadia Hiddon
I hope it is D3.


@Wadia Hiddon
Excellent!


Use full fat free range organic milk and organic free range egg.





Anyone who is supplementing with vitamin D should also be taking vitamin K2.  (BetterYou do an oral spray of K2, or they also do a vitamin D + K2 spray).  Without adequate K2 excess calcium can be 'dumped' into the soft tissues, cause stiffening of the arteries and help the formation of kidney stones.  Over dose can also cause problems such as calcification of the heart (Cardiologist Dr Aseem Malhotra posted on Twitter this week including a scan of 35 year old's heart that was really badly calcified through taking too much vitamin D).  Magnesium is also vital in the conversion of your vitamin D stores into the active form and lots of people are Mg deficient.  BetterYou to the rescue again - Mg chloride flakes make a super relaxing bath whilst you absorb what you need through your skin.  They also do Mg oil, body butter and lotion.  The only way you will know if you are taking the right amount is to test - and that's not entirely accurate....


@Christine Bickley   Why does the NHS not know this?   Doctors give out big chewable calcium tabs for bone loss loaded with Vit D for a daily dose then panic on a blood test that you have cancer due to raised calcium levels.


I was taking a fairly low level Vitamin D supplement before the lockdown following a bone fracture. I increased to 4000 units per day about 6 months ago and it resulted in an increase blood level from 110 to 160 (normal range 50 -200). I had coronavirus in January and I wonder how much that contributed to my fairly quick and full recovery.


Prof Tim Spector who runs the Zoe / Kings College Covid symptom reporting app had a link to a You Tube by Dr John Campbell.  Dr Cambell's own research has convinced him that the link between low vitamin D and Covid vulnerability is more than just coincidental. 

My own research convinced me a year ago. I take 2000 IU daily.  My wife is a health care professional in an NHS hospital and brought Covid home in April last year, and has 2  positive antibody tests 5 months apart that prove pretty conclusively that she has had Covid-19.  I'm in my early 60's and had some strange but very mild symptoms that were barely noticable.

Yes, coincidental maybe and only anecdotal, but I think it criminal that PHE and NHS are not looking into this with urgency.  The fact that vitamin D is a so-called hormone vitamin that almost all of the human body  needs, to me makes taking supplements to maintain recommended levels a no brainer.

And its pretty obvious that anyone with dark skin or who rarely exposes their body to summer sun are especially in need to vitamin D supplements.

I would almost go as far as saying that the NHS is negligent in not making its own existing guidance much clearer and more prominent.  The NHS has gone so far as adding a yellow box to their vitamin D guidance web page stating that there is no evidence that vitamin D supplements help with COVID-19.  This policy needs examining urgently.


@David Butler if I recollect correctly all over 60 were going to be issued with a three month supply of vitamin D in January. It never materialised I take vitamin D and a multi vitamin daily


They had a further discussion uploaded today via Zoe. Tim mentions that our vit levels are 50% genetic and there is no perfect level. One persons low may be another’s norm. So jury is out still on high dose supplementation


you will need to take vitamin D3 suplements to adequitly build up your vitamin levels during the winter months. I will surgest 4000 IU a day starting now every day for the rest of your life.


@Mark Burn No, 1000 IU is enough. Too high a dose is toxic.


Not so .. the limit mentioned by the NHS of 400iu is to prevent rickets.  It is now known that you have to have huge doses of vit D to get in the toxic range.  The more body fat you have, the higher the dose you need to get your blood levels into the optimum range.


@C E Jackson It certainly is toxic in high dosage and produces symptoms similar to arthritis in all joints but especially in the hands.


@Peter Jones @Mark Burn
I take 1000iu, as recommended by my Consultant Rheumatoligist.


@Anne Thompson @Peter Jones @Mark Burn I take 10x that.  I also take K2 to ensure that the calcium goes to the right place.  I have been on this regimen for 3 years and despite having arthritis in my hips when I was in my 30's/40's I no longer have arthritis there or anywhere else.


@Peter Jones @Mark Burn
That is incorrect. You can take up to 10 000 units/day. It is best to associate with vitamin K2. You can ask your GP to measure your levels or do it privately. 1000 units when you are insufficient or deficient is way way below the dose you should take.


First off - Another major 'review of reviews' showed the only reliable predictor of vulnerability to Covid is genetics.
That has some overlap with 'race' (for want of a more widely understood term) - But family history and previous medical history was more important still.


Next - The findings of many reviews was Vitamine D is not intrinsically prevenataive - Its more that its lack makes you vulnerable.  With a dark skin in a northern lattidute producing enough from sunlight can be difficult.
.
Finally - COD OIL capsules.  Usually contain copious amountd of vitamin D (check & choose capsules so enhanced), it does so at a fraction of the cost of this more or less adatorial piece. 
AND
It contains Omega 3 & 6 in its most easily assimilable form which is essential for health.
Morrisons & Sainsburys  Cod Oil caps are probably just as good s M&S or Waitrose ones.
And between the catchpennys above and good sense -
Hello supermarket.


Hmm not a particularly new study, many were saying Vitamin D last April, not interestingly our NHS or Government though. Oh dear me no not much profit in vitamin D eh?


£149 for bronze coloured Vit d capsules.  I laughed.  A lot.  I do hope the celebes and influencers and instagramers et all all buy this Vit D which can be bought for less than £5 for 60 days.


@Wadia Hiddon
£1.50p for 90 days from Wilko.


@Wadia Hiddon 
(i) This is an advertorial, not unbiased reporting
(ii) Its a 'retred' of 90% the same piece triotted out about six or 10 months ago.
(iii) As VFM the DTs declining.


@Wadia Hiddon
Way too expensive unless the bottle lasts 2 years. Racket!


Supplementing with Vitamin D3 alone without Vitamin K2 in balance can cause Calcium to build up in soft tissues. D helps with abortion of Calcium whereas K2 enables the extra Calcium to be moved into the bones with the help of Magnesium. Also, Vitamin A is needed in balance with Vitamin D, which helps prevent either of them becoming toxic at the levels of D required for better Covid 19 outcomes. It is a complex balance, and this simple DT article doesn't do enough to cover it.


Just be aware that vitamin A is toxic at too higher dosage.


@Stephen Warne 
Accordingly, don't eat the Dog's liver.
Its where Scott (of the Antarctic) went wrong.

Its unlikely to achieve toxic levels by eating carrots 'though, despite they're being a good natural source of Vit A.


On this fatal expedition, Scott of the Antarctic didn’t have dogs; he had ponies. That’s where he went wrong.


This article has numerous half-truths and is just an excuse to promote overpriced products.
If you want to take Vitamin D supplements they are readily available and cheap from any pharmacy or supermarket.


@John Clark I take 5,000 IU twice a day for my RA, and get it from local chemist for 7 pounds for 250 capsules.


@Chris Rous @John Clark Wow,far too much - toxic.


There is so much wrong with this article that I don’t know where to begin. However vit d a hormone is key in regulating insulin. Insulin resistance creates metabolic syndrome and abdominal obesity.  Metabolic syndrome is a trigger for a number of systemic diseases that are far more dangerous than sun exposure.

Get out in the fresh air, and sun, enjoy yourself. Cover up midday. Eat a good diet low in carbs , high in fat and take a vit d supplement. You will feel much better.


@caron townsend Nothing wrong with it, has helped me with my RA for the last 10 years. I take advice from my dr.


10-15 mins isn’t long enough in Northern Europe during most of the year, and is nowhere near long enough for Black people.


@T Richards A couple of years ago I heard a skin specialist (a doctor not a beauty writer) on Radio4 saying that in the UK between Oct and April, no-one makes any Vitamin D, the sun is just not strong enough.


@Hayley Chalmers Agreed. The other indicator to getting enough sunshine, is when standing, if your shadow is longer than you are tall, you are not getting enough.


This makes no sense:
“Your body makes some Vitamin D when exposed to sunlight and some from a healthy diet, but the recommended amount of time is only 10-15 minutes of unprotected sunlight per day - which means that even in lockdown you won’t be at risk so long as you take a supplement,” Daya points out.


The risks of UV exposure (unless one burns excessively) most certainly do NOT outweigh the risks of Vitamin D deficiency.  The scare-mongering has caused people to avoid sun and slather sunblock on which stops D being absorbed. (It has also made a fortune for purveyors of sunscreen. ) It is all about moderation. Something that seems in short supply in a world where the media peddles extremes.
One thing the epidemic has exposed is the way our health practitioners and advisers have been economical with the truth and been unduly influenced by Big Food and Big Pharma. All you have to do is follow the money. And witness the realisation that many people who should be healthy are not and how many foods people have been conned into thinking are healthy are not.


@Janet Mozelewski Both are equally important if you mean the risk of malignant melanoma versus lack of vit D.  As the article said we need to spend very little time in the sun and even I as a pale skinned redhead can manage it, before putting on the sunscreen or covering up.  if you think I am neurotic about covering up, I watched my red haired husband die of malignant melanoma in his 30s with the result that he never got to meet his son.  I was myself diagnosed with the same thing 3 years ago and have been told by my consultant that faulty genes have been found that make redheads more susceptible. It is all a question of balancing risks as there is now our red haired son to consider.



