


I've been watching a few You Tube videos recently and reminiscing about all things retro and was wondering whether there was a relatively simple way to utilise an unused i3 Intel NUC as a retro console?



Is there a "simple" way to get started or is it typically more complicated than just "install and go"



I don't mind doing the reading and experimenting a bit but if things get a bit technical in terms of "coding" then I'm going to fall flat I'm afraid!


Very easy to do with a nuc. I prefer windows based emulators since they are arguably better than stuff like android ports etc.

Mame is good for arcade stuff and will fly well for most stuff on a i3


Get yourself a good frontend like emulationstation and you will be set!



Cant talk about much more than that on this forum tho I am afraid.


Fair play, I wasn't sure what could and couldn't be talked about!




Hi folks I wondered what the best software for windows would be for retaining just the main movie files from a bluray in fully uncompressed quality. Basically I'm looking to try adding all my full blurays I own to a HDD near my TV for uncompressed playback.


I would be interested in knowing what people use as well.


I Use Makemkv to rip the movies from the disc and copy just the main movie with no additional compression, with whatever audio tracks I like.



then I use Handbrake to squish the video down a bit, usually keeping the HD audio as is



occasionally I use MKV tool nix if I want to add or remove any tracks manually. For example, handbrake doesn't process Dolby True HD, so you have to take it from the makemkv rip and add it into the handbrake conversion afterwards. 



for what the OP wants to do, you just need makemkv, then play back with XBMC/Kodi = job done


+1 for Make MKV, looking at anything between 20-32GB a film.


Brilliant folks thank you - sounds like excellent software for my purpose!


Does anyone know if the new ruling saying its now illegal again to rip cd's you own, apply to dvd's and blu-ray?



Edit: Ok apparently it is illegal 



http://www.bbc.co.uk/newsbeat/artic...egal-again-after-high-court-overturns-new-law


makemkv


Well that would technically make Apple law breakers as they allow you to buy an album on itunes and use it on multiple PC's.



No wonder so many people do not pay for music and movies anymore. Quite simply, UK is a joke, the music industry is a joke. 



They milked us on album prices for years and the industry blames piracy for the state the industry is in, when in fact it is governance, greed and crap musicians.


Don't Amazon do the same, buy a cd get a ripped version on their cloud as well?


They have prior agreement with the studios, so are not breaking the law. Its one the reasons not all cds purchased to this....


Well its actually the ironic thing of the music industry brought in cd writers / dvd writers . And then moan when people copy them ... Got to laugh


i use dvdfab and set the bitrate so i get around a 20gb file (for a 2hr movie) - i honestly can't tell the difference between this and the original.


what's the best programme for converting an burning an mkv to dvd?


Handbrake I've found is good






Convertxtodvd.



But don't do this, get a player that can handle them.


Another vote for makemkv.


Lol,As if people are going to take any notice of that.



Imo,If you have legitimately bought a copy..whether it be a CD/DVD/Blu-Ray etc..you should have the right to make a backup copy for personal use..they shouldn't have any say in it.


cheers mate.  It's so my son can have dvd's without mangling the originals


Yeah i whole heartedly agree with you on that one.


The reason I rip my Blu Rays is I get fed up of watching 10 minutes of trailers and anti piracy messages before I can watch the film.




I would recommend using Video Redo as well to edit out any intros, etc that are in the actual movie. It's a lossless editor.


It's illegal now under new law. 



http://www.bbc.co.uk/newsbeat/artic...egal-again-after-high-court-overturns-new-law


Damn Straight!!

Really annoys me having to sit through ads and anti piracy blurbs


Granted it's on a Mac, but I use Make MKV to rip the Blu Ray and then Handbrake to encode it to whatever format I need (Apple TV3 usually).


They both work on OSX and Windows.




Hi 

I bought some bitcoinfrom Gemini (as coinbase won't let me) and they charged me almost 2%.



If I choose to cash out I am worried they will do the same. For me these levels are just not worth it. I have now been green lit on Binance and will use those in future.



If I transfer my BTC balance from Gemini to Binance will that be more cost effective than just selling the BTC on Gemini?  

Thanks

Mike.



Currently £60 up but £20 of that has already gone to Gemini. I don't really want to give any more.


Ok am more happy with Gemini now. Turns out it is just the phone app which is extortionate.



Cost me £20 to buy £1000 of BTC on phone app.   On PC app I just put in a price limit sell order for the whole lot (will be just over 1110 of crypto if it comes in) cost of £3.90.  I can live with that fee.   Still a ways off however I think.


I generally found crypto exchanges fall into one of 3 categories: 



1 the super simple ones that charge an absolute fortune for buying and selling, like Gemini basic and Coinbase normal.



2 the ones with higher trading fees but lower withdrawal fees, like Gemini Active trader and Coinbase pro



3 the ones with lower trading fees but higher withdrawal fees like Binance and FTX



Don't ever use 1. 2 is good for me as I just want to buy and transfer it to a cold wallet for hodling. 3 is for people who are gonna be trading frequently.


Gemini?? Never heard of it. Sounds Dodgy.



Just stick to Binance. No need to use Coinbase anymore.


Well I'll be sure to weigh your opinion against the mountain of evidence that they're straight.



Binance charges £20 for a BTC withdrawal before network fee, Ether costs £10.


Totally agree.



A while ago, I tried purchasing small amounts of BTC through various avenues and came up with the following:


I would have loved to use coinbase pro alas they refused to green light my bank account when I asked them why they could not tell me.




Hi there, I am building a new PC with either a 5600x or 5900x, I already have a 3070 RTX .... and I would love to go for a White and Black so even considering white cables if that is possible?



I suspect I should aim for a 850W PSU. Is this one a good choice then?



https://www.overclockers.co.uk/cors...lar-power-supply-cp-9020188-uk-ca-253-cs.html



Thoughts?


Der8auer is using it in his latest video editing build. I can’t comment on the quality of it personally I'm afraid, but I doubt he would pick something poor quality.



He is using it “because it’s white” so he may be overlooking a better alternative, but you are in the same boat so it seemed relevant. When aesthetics are of considerable importance you just have to go with the best of what’s available.


I'm going to throw my debate hat into the ring with this PSU:



https://seasonic.com/prime-snow-silent


Asus  do a white one I think, but it's hard to  find,  Tiny Tom Logan  used it in his all white  build


This has white cables.



ASUS ROG STRIX 850W WHITE EDITION 80 PLUS GOLD MODULAR POWER SUPPLY



https://www.asus.com/uk/Graphics-Cards-Accessories/ROG-STRIX-850G-WHITE/


Would 750W be enough these days for a Ryzen 5000 and an RTX 3070?


aye


Nvidia suggests a 650 watter for a 3070 FE so the answer would be yes for most people.


Superflower Leadex.


The only issue with the Corsair is that it doesn't come with white cables. This asus does so to my mind it's worth the little extra...



https://www.overclockers.co.uk/asus...plus-gold-modular-power-supply-ca-05l-as.html


It comes with White braided cables.


The RMx is a good unit.


As above, RMx series are supposed to be excellent. The 750x comes in white too,


I bought that before this whole lockdown business for £135 from OCUK. Very good PSU, probably overkill but too good to refuse at that price. My system with X570 and a 5700XT have been very stable, I'm sure the PSU has contributed to that.




As pre the title, what the best game on ps4 VR to just make people jump and poo pants


Resident Evil 7.



/Thread


I'll second that, always have a good laugh at people when they try it


Thanks guys yhat looks fantastic.


If its still on the store the kitchen demo is good for a few scares.


Not zombies specifically, but the on-rails shooter Until Dawn: Rush of Blood is a great VR game to get people screaming and falling off chairs


My Mrs soiled her pants doing shark incounter on vr worlds


another one for resi 7




I found my 3070 (mobile) memory was limited by MSI Afterburner.



I found that the new beta extends the limit from +1500 to +2000.



Testing on Rig 1 in sig gets me to 1800 MHz, 8800 Mhz in AB / 2200 MHz in GPU-Z.







EDIT - see more details in this post below - https://www.overclockers.co.uk/foru...or-nvidia-3xxx-series.18927051/#post-34747618


Yeh but have you checked benchmark scores are actually rising?



Memory overclocking not what it used to be. You won't see snow or artifacts even at high clockspeeds but you aren't genuinely running that fast. It throttles to not make errors and likely you are either not running any faster or slightly less in real terms.



My VRAM taps out around +700Mhz so run +600Mhz


ECC Memory


What build as I see no updates via AB GUI (I am on Betas).


pointless for me, the memory on my 3090 will drop off at +400mhz, if I tried +2000mhz, the performance would probably be like a gtx780


If the manufactures are overclocking only by a small % that should tell you all you need to no.


VRAM on my 3070FE doesn't clock much at all anyhow - beyond approx. +200 IIRC applications using 3D just start randomly closing and/or driver TDR. Given the temperatures on some of the cards unless you redo the cooling it probably isn't a good idea to push it too far as well.


Surprised people are seeing drop-offs/crashes that low. All three Ampere cards I've done some memory overclocking on have scaled to or even above +1000MHz set in Afterburner. Made sure to check before/after scores every step of the way in several benchmarks to avoid regressions.


do they use better ram on the laptop versions ? the desktop ones dont come close to overclocking that far.


Strange, my 3070FE is running at +1400 and seems to be fine at 63MH/s. I only mine on it though.


Some poor sod getting a second hand 3070 further down the line that's had it's balls hanging off it mining.


My 3080FE only manages +600MHz. Anything higher than +620MHz usually results in an instant blackscreen. I thought it was supposed to simply degrade performance when pushed too far but mine must be the exception


Guru3D






I’m wondering if they have better thermal contact with all the components due to lack of space?



I repasted mine and the contact points seem to be substantial and generally pretty good. I don’t recognise all the components though.






I’m guessing that +600 on a 3080 is a higher speed than +600 on a 3070 though, right?



eg my default is 7000, so +1000 gives 8000 in AB (2000 in GPU-Z)


For reference my 3080 FE is happy at +1000Mhz but at +1050MHz it will lose 1-2 fps and then after that it starts to drop off loads.


Thanks for pointing this out.



I can confirm I get performance increases all the way up to +1800 MHz, at which point Superposition crashes near the end of the benchmark.



+1750 produces the occassional geometry error (massive spikes in Unigine Heaven benchmark and games)

+1700 is therefore probably the sweet spot and what I will use for mining.



Some things to point out, in case others are interested:



1) Testing was done with the GPU core at fixed very low voltage / clocks (e.g. ~650 mV / 1100 MHz). This is to allow plenty of thermal and power headroom to truly see what the memory is capable of.

2) Performance increases are tiny in something like Unigine Heaven (around 0.5% per 500 MHz).

3) For games, I plan to use the opposite setting - namely, max GPU clock and limiting the memory to "only" +1000 MHz. For me, the optimal curve seems to be +250 MHz at the low end (600 mV) and topping out around 1900 MHz at the high end (1000 mV). Generall, the GPU sits at 1650 MHz / 775 mV, where it's power-limited, but of course this varies on the game / scene being rendered.



