

What’s the biggest number you can think of?
A billion? A trillion? A quadrillion? A sextillion? A tredecillion? A googol? A googolplex?
There’s a schoolyard joke about infinity+1 being the largest number in existence.
The problem is that infinity+1 still equals infinity.
Infinityinfinity? Still infinity.
A bigger problem still is that infinity isn’t a number, it’s a concept.
And is it the biggest number you’re trying to think of or is just the name for the biggest number?
In Ancient Greece, mathematician Archimedes theorised that the biggest number we would ever need would be the total grains of sand in the Universe.
Big numbers are represented in powers so 104 (sometimes displayed as 10^4) is 10x10x10x10 or 10,000 and this power kept increasing until Archimedes found his number.
The higher the factor, the bigger the number
He wasn’t one for small challenges and set the number at (108)8 or 1064.
Despite his view that no bigger number would ever be needed, he kept multiplying and multiplying until he reached what has become known as the Beast number, (108^108)10^8
That’s one followed by 80 quadrillion zeros.
As a guide, there are said to be somewhere between 1078 and 1082 atoms in the observable universe, which is a tredecillion (1078) or just above.
The number of atoms in the universe is not even 0.1% of the Beast number.
Despite having more numbers than atoms in the universe, trying to prove that your integer is bigger than anyone else’s integer has continued through the centuries.
The biggest number referred to regularly is a googolplex (10googol), which works out as 1010^100.
To show how ridiculous that number is, mathematician Wolfgang H Nitsche started releasing editions of a book trying to write it down.
It took him 10,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 (just under a sexdecillion) volumes of the book to fully portray the number of zeros.
But he did it (though we assume he had a lot of automated help, we have asked).
Even then, there is a bigger number that nobody knows the value of:
Graham’s number holds the Guinness World Record for the biggest specific integer used in a published mathematical proof.
It is to solve a problem in Ramsey theory around an n-dimensional hypercube (if you even understand that tiny piece of the theory, you’re doing better than us).
Graham’s number is divisible by 3 and ends in a 7, its last 12 digits are 262464195387 but it can’t be expressed in a standard way and is too big to be worked out in full.
But the issue with any of these numbers is that they’re not ‘sanctioned’ nor really that useful in everyday mathematics or measurement.
The big conversation is around what ‘useful’ numbers should be called and who should be in charge of naming them.
The name for the googol (10100) was first dreamt up by a nine-year-old nephew of a mathematician a century ago.
‘You can make up any names you like but the official ones are sanctioned under what we call the metre convention,’ Dr Richard Brown, head of metrology at NPL, the UK’s National Measurement Institute, tells Metro.co.uk.
‘That’s an intergovernmental treaty where member states agree on units.’
The International Committee For Weights And Measures (CIPM) meets once every four years and is responsible for what the definite answer is to questions like ‘how much does a kilogram weigh?’
The definition of a kilogram was actually tweaked at the last summit.
The bigger numbers are used in maths but CIPM is more focused on real-world uses:
The International System Of Measurements recognises kilo (1,000), mega (1m), giga (1bn), tera (1tn), peta(1015), exa (1018), zetta (1021) and yotta (1024) as prefixes.
These prefixes can be used before any measurement – kilometre, megametre for example – but most understand them from the bytes of computing (megabyte, gigabyte).
And, Dr Brown believes, we might need something bigger:
‘The advent of things like quantum computing will soon move us to a stage where we need something that’s above a yottabyte.
‘Historically these things go up in ten to the power of three, so the next will be 10 to the power of 27.’
There are already many names travelling the internet for what this new prefix might be:
Xenottabyte? Shilentnobyte? Domegemegrottebyte? Brontobyte? Geobyte?
The best of The Future Of Everything
A weekly look into the future
The future of Time: Is technology making time go quicker?
The future of Numbers: What comes after the giga, tera, peta, exa, zetta and yottabyte?
The future of People: Racism ‘won’t go away’ even if we’re all mixed-race in the future
The future of Travel: Commuting is miserable right now – but the future will change that
The future of Space: There is a chance we will be able to travel through dimensions and time
The future of Evolution: What are the hard human limits of athletic world records?
The future of Love: People could be happier with open relationships rather than hunting for 'the one'
The future of Technology: Graphene the ‘miracle material’ is stronger than diamond but what can it do?
The future of Health: Gene editing: will it make rich people genetically superior?
The future of Power: Multinationals like Facebook want to wrestle control of the monetary system away from nation states
The future of Work: Your boss is already reading your emails. What happens when they can track your every move?
Read every Future Of Everything story
They’re all genuine suggestions.
A student in California suggested ‘hella’ in 2010 as the prefix for 1027 and got thousands of signatures for an online petition but this, nor any of the others above, have ever made it to the CIPM
Dr Brown, on the other hand, already has a white paper submitted, waiting for discussion.
Using the Greek and Latin works for nine (ennea, novem) and 10 (deka, decem) for inspiration, he worked his way backwards in the alphabet (zetta, yotta to come to letters that hadn’t been used yet
- Ronna – to represent 1027 or 10009
- Quecca – to represent 1030 or 100010
Dr Brown says this is just the start of the discussion around how we define bigger numbers.
And it’s not just a conversation about what to the call them but what needing prefixes for bigger values means for everyday life.
Big data strategist Paul Sonderegger has called this whole debate the ‘whateverbyte problem’ and sees it as irrelevant compared to the real issue:
‘Not only do we lack a name for that volume of data, we don’t know how to talk about its consequences,’ Sonderegger told Forbes.
It’s estimated, as discussed earlier in the Future Of Everything series, that a brain’s size is up to 2.5 petabytes.
If that’s the case, a single yottabyte has enough memory for around 400m brains.
A single ronnabyte, or whatever it is finally called, would have space for around 4bn brains.
A single queccabyte would have more than enough space for the entire knowledge of every person who has ever been born.
‘A yottabyte (1024) is still a huge measurement but it is still finite and we deal with practical measurement, not theoretical maths,’ Dr Brown says.
‘We’re always constrained by the size of things we can measure.
‘We’re never going to deal with things as big as Beast numbers or googols or stuff like that.’
While the etta/yotta/whatever debate is often around bytes, the CIPM doesn’t actually recognise the byte as a physical measurement as it doesn’t have a size.
‘It actually sits outside the International System of Units,’ Dr Brown says.
‘It’s obviously something we should consider because people in the area of computing are using our prefixes and we have to bear that in mind.
‘But bits and bytes are not physical units but mathematical entities.’
Scientists, on the other hand, are more concerned with what the numbers do rather than worrying about what they are called:
‘I don’t know anyone who has used a googolplex,’ Dr Simon Foster, solar physicist at Imperial College, London, tells Metro.co.uk
‘My colleagues looking at the scale of the universe have never had a problem with numbers.
‘People simulating galaxies are not worried about running out of numbers.
‘How we communicate our science might eventually become an issue but it’s not a problem for the actual science.’
Rather than working our way towards infinitely big, Dr Foster thinks that experts would be better looking toward smaller and smaller numbers:
‘For quantum, it’s actually going the other way, with tiny numbers – pico (10-12) and nano (10-9) are useful as shorthand,’ he says.
A negative factor means you divide rather than multiply so 10-3 (or 10^-3) would be 1/10/10/10 or 0.001.
But all these numbers have been around for a while.
If the new terms for 1027 (ronna) and 1030 (quecca) are adopted, they will be the first new prefixes since 1991.
The next opportunity would be the meeting in 2022 but De Brown thinks 2026 is more realistic.
‘You don’t want to make changes that no one will use, you want to make sure that it’s right,’ he says.
‘A lot of interest is around the names of the prefixes but the bigger decision is: do you need to expand the system at all?’
If it ever does pass the rigorous tests, Dr Brown already has the name for 1033 up his sleeve: Bundecca, based on the Latin for 11, undecim.
B is the last letter not used as a prefix.
After that, we’re out of letters.
But are we really running out of numbers?
In coding, you really can run out.
If you use computer programming language JavaScript, the largest integer you can safely use on a 64-bit system is said to be 253-1, or 9,007,199,254,740,991.
Everything above that can be displayed as infinity.
In the real world, the names for numbers might be running out but numbers are infinite, despite what the schoolyard jokes about infinity +1 tell you.
While mathematicians have developed theories around infinity and addition, until those are more widely agreed, we won’t run out of numbers, just names for them.
The Future Of Everything
This piece is part of Metro.co.uk's series The Future Of Everything.
From OBEs to CEOs, professors to futurologists, economists to social theorists, politicians to multi-award winning academics, we think we had the future covered, away from the doom-mongering or easy Minority Report references.
Every week, we explained what's likely (or not likely) to happen.
Talk to us using the hashtag #futureofeverything. Though the series is no longer weekly, if you think we might have missed something vital to the future, get in touch: hey@metro.co.uk or Alex.Hudson@metro.co.uk
Read every Future Of Everything story
Sign Up for News Updates
Get your need-to-know latest news, feel-good stories, analysis and more
Not convinced? Find out more »



A 12-year-old schoolboy was ‘lured’ from his home before being stabbed to death by an older youth who suspected he may have been a ‘snitch’, a court heard.
Roberts Buncis was repeatedly knifed in the neck, chest, abdomen and head with such force that the tip of the blade was left embedded in his skull.
The youngster’s body was found in a wooded area on Alcorn Green in Fishcroft, Boston, Lincolnshire, on December 12 last year – two days before his 13th birthday.
The older boy, a 14-year-old who cannot be named, is on trial at Lincoln Crown Court charged with Roberts’ murder.
Jurors heard Roberts was subjected to a ‘savage and prolonged attack’ in the early hours then left to die on the village green where his body was discovered later that morning.
Prosecutor Mary Loram QC said: ‘In this case the person accused of carrying out that attack and of killing Roberts is this defendant, who is 14-years-old and seems to be a friend of Roberts from the evidence we will be looking at.
‘We say that this defendant lured Roberts out of his home in the early hours of December 12 last year to this wooded area nearby where his body was ultimately found.
‘We say that he lured him out of his home to kill him because we have the phone records of the phones belonging to both Roberts and the defendant.
‘Evidence from phones also tells us that the defendant was to admit, in effect, that he was responsible to one of his friends.
‘On the morning of December 12, he sent this message to his friend: “Things went wrong”, and then said, ‘This wasn’t supposed to go down like this”.’
Ms Loram also told jurors that the messages suggested ‘these children did not live lives that many 12, 13 and 14-year-olds do’, adding: ‘There is a lot of talk of drink and drugs in the chat then you would ever want to see between those who are so young.’
Jurors heard Roberts was found to have suffered stab injuries to his right side, shoulders and arms as well as three severe knife injuries to his head.
He also suffered a particularly serious hand wound which gave the impression the killer had ‘tried to cut it off’, it was said.
The court was told the defendant had attacked another schoolboy for being ‘a snitch’ days before Roberts was killed.
Ms Loram said: ‘In messages between the defendant and his friend they speak about hoping Roberts isn’t a snitch.
‘One message read: “Just let’s hope Roberts don’t snitch else he’s going to be this kid”.’
The prosecutor told jurors that other messages between the older boy and victim ‘look as though the defendant encourages Roberts to sell drugs for him’.
She said the boys arranged to meet-up shortly after 2am on December 12, eventually agreeing to see each other at 3.30am with Roberts being asked to sell drugs for £50.
Ms Loram added: ‘Something is planned which Roberts doesn’t know about and we say there is a clear inference to be drawn from these messages that Roberts is lured out of his house with the promise of money.’
She said Roberts was told to call the defendant when he arrived at the agreed place, which he did at 3.26am, adding: ‘It must have then been shortly afterwards that he was attacked and killed.’
The court heard the defendant put on a balaclava and latex gloves before attacking Roberts by stabbing him ‘again and again’.
Ms Loram said: ‘There is no possible defence here to the charge of murder.
‘The defendant may be nearly 15-years-old now but the savagery of the attack can have no explanation that amounts to any defence.
‘The prosecution says this was a planned assault on Roberts. The defendant went to that meeting armed.’
The trial, which is due to last two weeks, continues.
Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.
For more stories like this, check our news page.
Sign Up for News Updates
Get your need-to-know latest news, feel-good stories, analysis and more
Not convinced? Find out more »



Some people have enjoyed being on furlough so much that they don’t want to go back to work, a Conservative MP has claimed.
Former business secretary Dame Andrea Leadsom also argued the Government scheme to pay workers during the pandemic has left others ‘terrified’ to return to the office.
She said the issues were having major economic consequences in her Northamptonshire constituency, and around the rest of the UK.
Businesses are struggling to get employees to return to work because ‘people have, to be perfectly frank, become used to being on furlough’, Dame Andrea told BBC Radio 4’s Any Questions.
‘For some people they’re just terrified, so it’s like, “I’ve been on furlough for so long, I really can’t quite face going back to the office” and employers are rightly saying, “well, you need to”.
‘So there’s that issue, the mental health issue, the fear of it. For other people, it’s like, “well actually being on furlough in lockdown has been great for me – I’ve got a garden, I’ve been able to go out walking every day, I’ve got great vegetables growing, I don’t really want to go back to work, maybe I’ll think about part-time or I’m going to retire early”.’
The politician said the UK’s economic bounce back was being damaged by the refusal of some to return to work.
‘If we can’t get our economy to bounce back then we can’t start to pay this huge bill that we’ve already incurred for this lockdown, and that’s critical at this point,’ she said.
The furlough scheme was first introduced in March last year and currently pays 80% of an employee’s wages so that companies whose profits have been hit by the pandemic can keep people on.
It is due to taper off from the end of this month, moving to a 70% state subsidy supported by a 10% employer contribution in July, tapering further before ending completely in September.
Dame Andrea’s comments have provoked much debate on social media. Broadcaster Julia Hartley Brewer tweeted: ‘This is undoubtedly true. Most people aren’t well paid and many don’t like their jobs. If you’re on low income in a miserable job, getting 80% pay *not* to work is a pretty good deal.’
But people who had been furloughed said they’d struggled to survive on 80% of their salary and had been living in a ‘constant state of anxiety’ because they didn’t know if they would have a job at the end of it.
Get in touch with our news team by emailing us at webnews@metro.co.uk.
For more stories like this, check our news page.
Sign Up for News Updates
Get your need-to-know latest news, feel-good stories, analysis and more
Not convinced? Find out more »



