


History will remember Mitt. But I'll always remember him for relating how tough things got when he and Ann were attending college that he had to sell some stock. Oh the humanity.


Romney is no puppet like the rest of the repuglican pussies trump grabs and has his twisted way with. The conservative thugs and their band of gun nuts and wing nut neo-nazis aren't going to dominate this country.  The decent majority of Americans stands behind Romney and decency.


I applaud Romney's courage. But I also applaud that of his family, who knew they'd be part of Trump's  venomous backlash. I compare Ann Romney -- dancing horse and all -- to the sanctimonious Karen Pence, whose husband supports every Trump lie.


Utah is not all that ‘deep red’.   54.5% of utah voted for someone other than trump.  I hear people here in Utah use ‘we’ as in ‘we voted for trump’ and ’we knew what we were getting’.  We?   54.5% of us are not part of that ‘we’.   And that is a majority.   They must be wielding a minority ‘we’ ?


I’m nominating Mitt Romney as Time Person of the Year, for his honesty, integrity and courage to vote his conscious.  Let’s all show the world how we feel by nominating Mitt:  editors@txxxxxxm


That would REALLY drive Trump up the wall.


The republican party is an albatross on the neck of democracy. Romney would do himself a great favor by leaving it if it doesn’t do him a great favor of kicking him out.


Thanks to Mitt Romney for following his conscience and doing his job. He may pay a heavy price for that in this Administration.  Our history is starred with the actions of those who
put principle before power.


1) Utah is not really "deep" red. SLC has Democratic mayors. A lot of the smart tech areas are blue. 
2) trump got only 40% in a 3-way race because they did not like him that much. 
3) MSM was implying Doug Jones and Joe Manchen would be spineless but they were not.

But no doubt, Romney does have a conscience and hasn't sold his soul to the monster in the WH


Romney got his fifteen minutes of fame. His performance was touching and dramatic. However why did he not vote to convict on both counts of the impeachment. Act of a coward get his fame and cover his butt at the same time. He will get his name  in the history books. As did BENEDICT ARNOLD.  Perhaps he could change his name to BEN A. ROMNEY. Mr. Romney just wait a while and see how things go for you with the Democrats. I bet it will not be so pleasing next time you did agree with one of them. My final word to you Romney is you are soon to be a man without a country.


Romney is American thru and thru. trump and his GOP mob are anti-American in every way.


Trump makes Benedict Arnold look like Audie Murphy.


I have one question which should prove Romney's political pureness and bona fides. Is he the last human purchaser of BRYLCREEM?


No one ever believed that Republican senators would suddenly and miraculously discover their spines.  Trial lawyers know that if they find themselves in a hostile or unfavorable forum, the best they can do is make a record for review by an appellate court.  There is no appellate court for  an  impeachment "trial".  But there is history.  Hats off to Adam Schiff and  the House Managers who, despite the stonewall, made a credible, consistent, passionate and damning record for history.


Thanks, Mitt. Wish we’d have had witnesses (hey- THAT vote might have actually changed something!) but you took one on the chin in the end, so props to you. 

At the end of the day, anyone who spends as much time and energy squashing anything remotely resembling dissention and free thought as Trump (and his Fox/rallygoing/WH minions) is inherently anti-democratic. We are getting a real-time lesson in how democracies die. Look how far we’ve slid in 3 years. What do you think this will look like in five years, if he gets re-elected? I don’t know about you- but I just threw up in my mouth.


Romney and Collins voted FOR witnesses. Enough faux news.


Truth


Hey I woke up this mornin' and saw a bush a burnin' ----da da da dah dah dah, I'm for Mitt now! I've seen the light!


Can we please stop glorifying Romney's "courage" here?  Let's all remember that he ALSO voted to not allow more documents.  He ALSO voted not to allow more witnesses.  He is ABSOLUTELY part of the problem here!

Maybe if he had his little epiphany a week or so earlier and actually raised his voice to demand an actual, you know, TRIAL for the impeachment, it might have made a difference.  But one lone voice, voting on just ONE charge, is hardly enough to make the difference that HE KNOWS he could have made by speaking up at the beginning of the process.

His "courage" is weak tea by any rational standard.

Also, if the folks of Utah don't re-elect him, he's what?  Forced to go back to one of his several mansions and live like a king for the rest of his life?  Oh no!  The Horror!  He's got nothing to lose from positioning himself as some "great voice of conscience".  It's a fraud.


He ALSO voted not to allow more witnesses.

No. Romney voted to call witnesses.


That is correct. There seems to be some kind of disinformation campaign on his witness vote.


https://www.politico.com/news/2020/01/21/mcconnell-schumer-senate-impeachment-trial-101372

For the LOVE OF GOD!  This was only 2 weeks ago!  Do you people just not pay attention?


Mark1234:  Nope.  You have got to stop getting your news from Fox.  I’m nominating Mitt Romney as Time Person of the Year, for his honesty, integrity and courage to vote his conscious. Let’s all show the world how we feel by nominating Mitt: editors@txxxxxxm


Today Mitt Romney became presidential. You sir, made all us true christians who follow the teachings of Christ proud. Not the white evangelicals bleeting behind Trump, our times anti Christ if there ever was one. I salute your courage and principles


Did you also see his cowardly cringing and abasement to Team Trump when he voted to deny the impeachment trial any new documents or witnesses?  The 11 separate times he raised his voice to say "Sure, let's keep this cover up rolling!"?

Don't give him too much credit here.


Mark, Sorry  but you are wrong. Romney voted to call witnesses.

Romney and Susan Collins


Okay. Mark1234 is a troll.


Reality says you were not paying attention to the whole trial.  That's what Romney is counting on.  Sheep.  Sheep who only remember what they are told to remember.  It isn't trolling when it's the truth.  No matter how much you might not like it.

Read this:  https://www.politico.com/news/2020/01/21/mcconnell-schumer-senate-impeachment-trial-101372 

And be sure to look at the DATE, this happened at the opening of the impeachment.


Again, there were 11 votes for witnesses and documents at the opening of the impeachment.  He voted AGAINST all of them.


Yep makes me wanna up my tithes.


But, ultimately,  he condemned trump on the most serious charge. Please note he s the ONLY republican who did his job


History will surely be kind to Romney. His speech was the most genuine, honest and eloquent speech I have heard. I really respect his courageous stance. That wasn’t easy. Easy would have been to go with Trump. 
   Romney not only disagreed with the lie of Trump. Romney stood up for all Americans and all democracy by rebuking this sick president...


"History will remember Mitt Romney"
If "history" = Nancy Pelosi, Adam Schiff, Jerome Nadler, and Jennifer Rubin.
Others, not so much.  And he ain't no Edmund Ross.


You prefer a Trump supporter's version of history, I suppose.  I have news for you, historians do not write history according to the bias of politics.


No?  Read "The 1619 Project."    OK, not really historians (but they play one for the newspaper).  Howard Zinn (plays one, too, but has a good publishing gig).  Even Bernard Bailyn with his economic theses?  Read some historians next time you're on the beach.


Well good for Romney. He deserves some praise. But how in the world did he conclude that Trump was not guilty of obstructing Congress? To me that  behavior on Trump's part was even more obvious and less amenable to spin.


And less important.


I don't think it was less important. I think it sets a very dangerous precedent that could end up with far reaching negative consequences.


I remember seeing a tape of Senator Romney back during his presidential run in which he referred to the White House as a "fortress" and a "palace" and thinking he was wrong.
It is neither, it is "the People's House."

However elite he is, he is a decent man for a modern republican.
It looks probable that party has only 1 Statesman left in high office.

What we are living through here in America is a good old fashioned POWER GRAB.
trump is the one guy with the audacity and arrogance to lead the repubs to the promised land of being able to rule instead of bothering to goven.

Do Not trust them one bit to relinquish power regardless of the electoral wins or losses.
McConnell has been leading as though they are going to be in power forever.

The NRA is now the paramilitary wing of the gop and Fascism is on the rise worldwide.

We fellow citizens are in for a rough decade.


Hey John Bolton and Don McGahn...grow a pair and testify.  Don’t let this clown show continue. We, America, need to hear the TRUTH.


We, America, need to hear the TRUTH?
Since when?
We were founded on lies.


Romney made one of the great speeches before Congress I've ever seen. Sad only four senators were in the chamber to witness it. He sealed his reputation as a man of honor and integrity. I'm not religious but I respect the depth of his faith. To have Trump slime him today - at the National Prayer Breakfast, of all places - for using his religion as a crutch is our "president" at his low class best!


Mitt is looking at a presidential run in 2024. His vote against Trump was purely tactical.


And you know this because...?


A Sage?


Because he ALSO voted to deny the impeachment access to documents or witnesses ELEVEN SEPARATE TIMES!  And he voted against the Obstruction of Congress charge (possibly because he himself voted 11 times to continue the glorious GOP Path of Obstruction).

Never forget that he's eyeball deep in the cover-up with those votes to block a fair hearing.  One vote on one charge gives him a fig leaf to run on.  Randle has it exactly right here.


Mark1234, Romney voted to call witnesses.


No, he voted one time, after the cases were presented, to call Bolton.  He voted NO on all 11 of the measures Schumer tried to get passed BEFORE the cases were presented.

If he had this 'crisis of faith' that required him to respect his faith BEFORE Schiff and Cippolone spent a week presenting their cases I would believe he means it now a whole lot more.


Not likely with the right-wing-media and a good chunk of the Republican Party looking for his scalp.


@ Randle: at 77?


What makes you think djt and repubs won't go for a 3rd term?


Randle— how do you figure?  He alienated 90%+ of the GOP.  He is dead for any office outside Utah.


He's playing the odds. Trump is under the microscope now. Mitt sees the inevitable implosion and wants a branch to grab when the GOP tries to rebuild.


Romney is indeed an honest and eloquent spokesman and Utah is fortunate to have him.


Utah is fortunate to actually be called Utah. You folks can thank the U.S. Cavalry for that. Yet still so cultish!


If Romney were that courageous he would have voted yes on BOTH articles of impeachment. Romney's actions yesterday were self serving, nothing more. He was just looking out for his own political future. That simple.


Enough with the purity tests. He voted as he saw fit. If he was looking out for his political future, he chose very odd way to do it.


Short sightedness seems to be a purely American affliction. I was talking to a barista this morning and mentioned that I was reading Edward Snowdens' biography and he responded by asking 'who?' Romney voted to agree with the executive as per the ignoring of subpoenas and obstructing Congress. Where is the purity in that? He's no hero, and unfortunately the American electorate has a hard time remembering yesterday. WE ARE IN DEEP TROUBLE if Romney is seen to be some sort of hero.



