


I get they are trying to stop a problem but that is no excuse for genocide.


The "Concentration camp" or Re-education centre" whatever you call it has to do with China's  reaction to the terrorist acts of the Uyghur in Xinjiang . Go to Youtube to see for yourself the brutal assaults and bombings in the area in 2009 and beyond . China has to do something about it whereas the US has done  very little to levitate its gun and racial problem . Please be fair when someone try to find ways to solve a problem. If a foreign terrorist group  has done similar acts in New York city what would you do ? Embracing or ignoring them because they think they are right and can inflict damage to others ?


e


If a group of aggrieved animal rights activists did the same, surely we should round up and re-educate all pet owners.


Trump and human rights should never be used in the same sentence. Our country has some of the worst human rights violations and corruption around and yet we blame other countries for the same. If trump gets another 4 years I can picture what it will look like.
Trump will proclaim that everybody sing the new national anthem called "Trump, the beautiful".
The stars and stripes will have a huge trump in the middle.
Seeing that our country has all this land, he will clear cut and build big, beautiful. re-education camps for all democrats to re-educate us.
All immigration to the US will be illegal. (except for trump, who will use them for his personnel use)
we will have a new holiday called "trump appreciation day" with all the splendor of air shows and military parades.
Yes, my dear trumpers, this country will be great again!


Trump bankrupted the country
Just like his business and the American people who live through it all are paying the price.
War is inevitable its trumps only hope of reelection.


Trump's sellout presents a morality test is for American's soybean farmers. 

When they want to reward Trump for trying to restore the soybean trade HE destroyed,  think of each shipment as a reward for the imprisonment of a Uighur.

How many Uighurs lives was your crop worth?


Trump may have signed the document, but the Chinese are probably laughing their heads off.


" Standing up against coerced brainwashing, forced incarceration and destruction of a people’s heritage is “exactly the right thing to do.”"   Yes, indeed, and we shall see if the USG means any of it when Congress turns its attention to upcoming Trump approved Israeli land grabs of what is left of ancient Palestine as their next move to force Palestinians into exodus.


In Xinjiang,16th century Islam is being dragged kicking and screaming into the 21st century. Ignorant Imams who have never read more than one book in their lives are being replaced by college educated school teachers in the temples. Children are learning to read and write their official national language. Young women are being emancipated from centuries of absolute Moslem male dominance. The industrial revolution  is replacing muscle powered agriculture as the main economy. Jobs that pay for labor in currency are replacing servitude as a medium of exchange. Ambitious Mullahs who want to secede from China to set up their own little caliphate are being disappointed in their ambitions. Those evil commies who are behind all of that are violating those people's civil rights! They should be scourged from the face of the earth! Boo Hoo!


I take it that you don't like Muslims.


Why should this be a surprise at all when it's so clear that Trump doesn't care at all about human/civil rights here at home?
He calls anyone who disagrees with him "scum";  calls the media "enemy of the people";  said he wanted to change liable laws so he could sue media until his people told him then he could be sued for liable; and on and on and on.  He's said that as Pres, he can do anything he wants -- he believes himself a dictator. He's always loved dictators.
If it were up to him, CNN and MSNBC would be out of business and journalists in prison. I have no doubt of this.
So again, why should he care about human rights elsewhere when he clearly doesn't care about them here at home?


Trump doesn't care about human rights in China?

Trump doesn't care about human rights in the United States.


"Mr. Trump was right to put his signature to it, whatever his motivation now. Standing up against coerced brainwashing, forced incarceration and destruction of a people’s heritage is “exactly the right thing to do.”"
Trump gets zero credit for this self-serving move.  It's the same thing as when people apologize for something awful that they did only after they got caught.  Trump didn't do this because he thought it was right, he did it because he thought it would help him.


Franklin Delano Roosevelt opened concentration camps in the United States where he forcibly put good decent law-abiding American citizens into because of their ancestry. And while being put into the concentration camps these good law-abiding American citizens were stripped of their homes cars all their Investments and money by FDR's government.

In other words FDR was basically the same as the Communist Chinese are today. And today's Lefty Democrats still think he was such a great guy and president.


That's the single worst thing FDR every did. That being said, I think leading us out of the Great Depression and to victory in WWII isn't the worst legacy ever.


But today's "Lefty Dems" also recognize that this internment under FDR's watch was a horrible wrong.  That FDR saved us from Hitler and helped countless millions with social reform but at the same time did this one awful thing.
It's called learning from history.
Unfortunately, Trump doesn't read and doesnt' care about history and so is doomed to repeat its mistakes. Plus his ego and desire to be a dictator blind him to anything else.


FDR did not save the world from Nazi Germany, Dwight David Eisenhower and Winston Churchill did. And also the Concentration Camp wasn't the only dreadfully despicable racist act by FDR. Also as World War II was beginning all those escaping the horrors of Nazi Germany were allowed into the United States except for one race, Jews. FDR had them turned back at the border and sent back to Nazi hell for the total reason that they were Jews.


LOL Trump has done so much more to confront China than Obama ever did. Another lying editorial from the Wapoo.


Go home Jim, you're drunk.


Isn't there a law against writing while drunk?


"America First."  This is Twump's policy.  He doesn't care what Xi does in China.  He doesn't care about whether or not other nations violate their citizens' human rights.  All Twump cares about is that he must get reelected so that he can take away rights from American citizens.


Uighur is the sacrificial lamb to the god of careerism .Bolton is a dishonest unreliable unhinged man . He should have been publicly humiliated and indicted years ago  for making threats and for harassing those who mounted resistance to his warmongering and unlawful abuse of powers . 
I don’t trust Trump. But I will always maintain more than 6 feet distance from this infected mind . Uighurs should do same . 
This is the inbuilt irony of the US democracy that an unelected guy gets the chance to engineer human and economic disaster and wreck the foreign policy repeatedly and never is asked to face the music .


Why would SCUMPf care about human rights in China? He's hellbent on eliminating them in the U.S.


Time and time again, the Post, reflecting the sentiment of DC elites, believe the US should export its morals to other countries, as if our moral compass is authoritative.  Time and time again, the Post advocates tying economic or business, trade or tax issues to changes in treatment of human rights in China, Saudi Arabia and other countries.


Evidently you are working to maintain your citizenship in the Confederacy. BTW your side lost the war.  SCUMPf is just the last demented remnant.


Have you been to another country yet? If not go ahead and travel. You will see how much America ideals of liberty and human rights are so much admired. It took this scump of Trump to make all of us look bad and for the dictators like Xi and Putin to rise.


VA Citizen,  You wrote: "The Post advocates tying economic or business, trade or tax issues to changes in treatment of human rights in China, Saudi Arabia and other countries."

Suffer from a little cognitive dissonance???? You realize that is exactly what the current occupant of the White House did in agreeing to look the other way on human rights violations in exchange for China's agreement to buy our farm products, He also did it in Saudi Arabia with Khashoggi's murder and their human rights violations.


I hope The Hague grabs him on the way to Russia and tries him for crimes against humanity.  They'll have a case for the brown kids at the border, the Chinese in concentration camps, and 120,000 dead Americans here at home.


Pick up Obama too for the tens of thousands of dead brown kids in Yemen...

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/obama-adminstration-guilt_b_8916380


oh pluhleeze.  Obama Obama Obama.  Give it a rest.  Loser.


The losers are the Yemeni dead kids that your pathetically write off because they were killed by your guy.


Ignored.


Of course.  Because you are a hypocrite.


The most radical thing about you is your dementia.


No - he or she will just substitute the name "Hillary" and continue on and on and on...


Aah, Mr. Whataboutism is here!


Where were you when Obama was in office implementing his bloody egregious policy against Yemen?


How's everything in Moscow, RP?


Trump's signature on the Act means nothing. The Chinese regime knows it is accompanied by a wink and crossed fingers.


Trump supports the use of Concentration camps.  So what exactly is the difference between him and Hitler, Pol Pot or Stalin?


A lot dummas. Hitler 13 million, Stalin over 26 million. 
Trump is awful but not Hitler territory.


Only because he's failed in the presidency just as he's failed at everything else he's tried to do all his life.


You miss the point, I did not say he was as effective, afterall he is an idiot.  What I was trying to say is there is no difference in the way they view the world and humanity. A world where anyone except their self-identified group are enemies to be disposed of.  But, by the time Trump is done in January 2021 he will be responsible for the deaths of over 200,000 Americans and at least that many people around the world because of his policies.  Last but not least the fact that Trump was not as effective in killing millions does not mean he does not deserve to be counted amongst that group.  The damage that Trump has done to the world and the lasting implications for the US and the world make him historically a member of the worst of the worst in history.  Every Republican who votes for him again should have their heads shaved.


Smaller hands?


Remembering reports that Trump always agrees with the last person he spoke with, this makes sense. He isn't capable of expressing disagreement face-to-face--too weak.
And he doesn't care about the Uigars one way or another.


I agree with the Post editorial that President Trump doesn't give a fig about human rights. But the title of the editorial doesn't match the editorial. Why? Because the editorial ends with Trump signing the Uighur Human Rights Policy Act -- whatever Trump's (devious) motive, that doesn't match the Post's claim that "this is a new low." Did two different people write the editorial and not talk to each other?


Trump's incoherence and TDS incoherence run in parallel...


The U.S. concern for human rights has always been hypocritical.

The sainted Barack Obama gave the odious Saudi regime the OK to pulverize Yemen to smithereens.  And Obama also greased over $100 Billion in weapons deals between the American Merchants of Death and repressive, retrograde, autocratic, kleptocratic, head-chopping House of Saud.  And he instructed the Pentagon to directly support the war crime operations against the Yemeni civilian population.

Trump merely picked up where Obama left off.  Obama, Trump and the Pentagon Generals are directly complicit in war crimes.  How is that respect for "human rights"?



