


Not a moment too soon. Will be good to have him for this game in Dallas


Great news!


Just a matter of throwing off the rust now.

Excited to hear this.


I like Handy working with him. Should go a long way.




to Minnesota for Robert Covington 

This is why I love our board with a fraction of the posters. Quality > quantity forever. Glad our team isn’t retarded.


Que?  Why the f*ck?




No OT’s. 

Harden with 59 

Beal with 46


All Star game?


Right?


No D Showdown


Actually a defensive Travishamockery


This is why I still don't believe the Rockets are to be feared in the playoffs.

The addition of Westbrook still doesn't solve 2 issues:  

1) They still haven't solved their biggest problem--a sound defense that is effective in the playoffs.  Their roster is good enough to win a lot of regular season games, but that's about it.

2) No Do Antoni's inability to adjust in a 7 game series against an elite opponent.  When they get eliminated this year in the playoffs, this will be that will be the end of No D Antoni in Houston.


Show_own, lol




Beating the flippers by 20 right now.  5 min left bin 3rd.


14-43 early.  Warriors are done

Go Jazz.  Destroying flippers right now


Kawhi load management after 4 games? I’m sorry that’s just some weak ass shit to me. And they are losing by 20. Nice team player there


4 games....WTF?


Before we start talking shit about Kawhi load managing, let's wait and see if LeBron or AD take a game off on the upcoming road trip.


The point is we are 4 games into the season. His coach is saying he's in perfect health.  So why aren't fans getting their moneys worth? 

Not landing kawhi may turn out to be a blessing in disguise. Talented no doubt buy Seems to be a diva.


Im sure they will take some games off, but using load management 4 games into the season just seems excessive. If bron did this after 4 games he would be getting crushed for it. Me included.


Load management after 4 and 100% healthy is a bitch move pure and simple.  Get 20 games under your belt before you pull that shit Apple Time.


I understand people calling this weak if it is indeed a "load management" situation, but honestly given how the Jazz fanbase is the worst in the NBA, I don't mind seeing those fans not get their money's worth.

That fanbase is horrific


But clips fans aren't either. They still pay their cable, league pass, or sit through commercials


And jazz fans happy they have easy win with no KL


That's a fair point about the league pass fans.

Yeah, Jazz fans are happy about the win, but make no mistake about it they still want to see superstar players play even if they're on the opposing team.


How many of you have a bet going on as to whether or not the Lakers or Clippers will have the better record by the end of the season??  Better think twice because of this load management BS!!




Wow. Warriors season officially donezo.


They were done already, but it isn't a season ending injury


Easy out for them imo. They were going to struggle regardless, now they have an excuse to claim. 

Broken hand should keep him out until 2020 but not the season.


D'angelo Russell will need to inject a bit more ice into his veins.


Wow how the mighty have fallen.  I mean yeah, Curry got hurt but they were down 30 pts in the FIRST QUARTER to the Suns AT HOME before Curry even got hurt.... So yeah they already sucked and now they will be one of the worst teams in the NBA, and they are cap-strapped with all three of their "Superstars" currently injured.  It's over GS.  Good riddance.


Um man I cannot really laugh at someone getting injured...but I am laughing.  Oh how the mighty have fallen.  Your turn in the barrel Warriors.


I'm actually grateful the Warriors were good when they were because:

1.  The Lakers weren't a threat to anybody since we were still in the gutter and not even making the playoffs

2.  They stopped the Flippers and Rockets from winning a championship (because if either one of those teams made the Finals they were
     likely going to beat anybody from the East).  I HATE the Flippers and the Rockets, so I didn't mind seeing GS win the championships at all.

3.  I enjoyed watching them play (although I know some like Sammy, hated the fact that they were a superteam).


Now they really are gonna flip Dlo.


I don't need a Warriors team with a top 5 pick.  Reminds me of the Robinson/Duncan Spurs.

Don't want that.  I prefer the Dubs barely making the 8th seed.


I know what you mean hack but it’ll be too little too soon. 

They’ll draft a 19 year old who will need a couple years to develop and Curry will be Lebron’s age. 

What they end up doing with DLo will probably solve more.




Kings look horrible.


"Sacramento loses again. 0-5 for the first time in almost 30 years. Just an awful start for Luke Walton."

Luke is out there breaking records...

Somewhere Magic Johnson is shaking his head saying, "I tried to tell ya."


He fails to make in game adjustments.  I was watching his press conference for some reason last night and a female reporter kept asking him why he didn't switch up his defense, perhaps picking up full court, or trapping the corners, in an effort to slow a third quarter onslaught against the Hornets.  Walton basically said they talked about it but they didn't want to play towards the hornet's style.  He said they were winning at the half but for some reason they couldn't sustain their momentum into the third quarter.  Lol you dumb fuck, that's because Charlotte made adjustments and you didn't, and they blitzed your ass.  This guy has to be the worst current coach in the NBA. Absolutely clueless.


But, but, but he's Luke Walton. Modern game minded guru.


That franchise has done a lot of losing I'm shocked it's the first time in past 25 yrs. Not a record you want to be a part of




I am rooting for the Spurs tonight. 

In regards to Kawhi's load management...
Managing your load to play the Spurs at home is akin to holding out for a slumpbuster past her prime.


I’m already on record rooting for any team that plays the Flippers—Spurs included.

And btw, why the Spurs/Flippers game is not on TNT is beyond me.....who really wants to watch the Heat and the Falcons on national TV for a regular season game???


Time zone schedule imo. They pick one East coast game and one West Coast. 

I think beyond the top 4 teams in the East no one cares too.


Go Spurs Go




4-6 weeks has now turned into no less than 6 months.

That team is down to D’Lo and Dray Dray.

With Klay’s knee injury and Steph’s hand, those players may never be the same.


3 months minimum not 6. And it’s his non shooting hand so he’ll be fine in that regard. 

But he’s on the wrong side of 30 and doesn’t have the physical frame to sustain dominance in the league imo. The warriors are done.


Yes 3 months.  My bad.  But the statement said they would provide an “update” on his status in 3 months, so I am figuring the Dubs believe the layoff will be longer.

Also, Curry uses both his left and right hands and has prided himself on his ball handling skills.  I wonder if the injury will affect him someway.


He does use both hands dribbling and finishing around the rim but I doubt it affects either too much. Kobe once broke his hand and it didn’t affect anything and it was his shooting hand. 

But yeah he probably will be out for longer than 3 months. No all star game for him if it’s longer than 3 months. That opens a guard slot. He may sit out the season especially if the Dubs are out of playoff contention come February.


Durant Achilles and leaves in FA
Thompson ACL
Iggy traded
Livingston retired
Steph broken hand
Kerr drinking modelo especial after games
Draymond reunited with tequila


"The Curse of Abandoning Oakland" seems to be in full effect.






Clippers still have the curse of Donald Sterling as well... aka "Curse of the Klansman Hat."


The ashes from a cross burning never comes off.  Just ask Donny.
  Curse of the Slumlord lives on until the Clippers become the Sonics.


These dudes folded like a wet paper towel.


Translation...tank time.


Bimbo Coles will be starting in place of Steph Curry tonight.




First real road game for Lakers tonight, the beginning of the texas two step with San Antonio next.


Same starters


Kuz off the bench?


Lebron alley oop to AD to start the game


Mavs alley oop right back at us lol


Bradley guarding Doncic nicely to start


Lebron just missed an open layup. Yikes


15-2 to start last game, 11-2 start to this game. I don’t like this pattern at all


Yeah limited mins 15-20


Porzingis hit a 3 off the dribble against AD. Hopefully he bricks that in 3rd and 4th quarters because thats danger


Bradley great D on Doncic again


McGee been trash entire 1st Q


Kuuuuuuuz is in


McGee getting picked on. Mavs trying to exploit him every play


Finally, out goes McGee


Lakers starting to fight back since Kuz came in they're just looking more quick and aggressive


Lakers being able to take a charge is really the only thing keeping them in this game.


Ac for 3!!


Took their first punch in 1st Q and rebounded nicely


Dwight playing great D since he checked in to close the 1st Q




After the previous game, Vogel said he wants to give the starting lineup (McGee) a 5 game sample size and then make changes to it if necessary. This is the 5th game. We've seen the same story every game so far so his choice should be simple.


KCP just air-balled a 6ft jump shot lmao


Damn mavs increasing the lead with porzingis and doncic on the bench.


Terrible pass by KCP


Kcp panics when he doesn’t want to shoot. Wtf kind of pass was that


This sucks big dong.  What the hell is this team doing?


Daniels and KCP have both been net negatives so far


6 point turnaround. Daniels can’t hit an open 3, but then gives it right back to Wright.


The guard play tonight has been pure trash.


WTF is Vogel doing with this lineup?  Does he want to be Luke Walton 2.0?


This is our worst played half of the year by far.  Vogel's rotations have been dogshit though


Timeout Mavs. Lakers close the gap to 4 at start of 3rd


tie game just like that


Luka with the matador defense, Lakers tie the game


McGee is literally fucking clueless


McGee just has such a low bball IQ


Bradley such a dawg


Lebron falling in love with the 3 a little to much there


Doncic has made about 3 lucky stepback chucks


And... back to 7 point lead for Mavs




He threw one up to the heavens over AD


Ad is not putting his stamp on this game. Luka is though


These refs are terrible, we have gotten mauled so many times and the refs look the other way, meanwhile if you breathe on one of their guys they blow their whistle


Kuz not quite up to speed yet. Gonna take him a few games


Mavs are doing what I thought they would. They are good. Don’t sleep on them


Mavs getting what I would call ticky tack calls. Lakers not gonna be getting any of those


We came all the way back that quarter only to put KCP in and then lost it all


Net Negative


First minute of 4th quarter - KCP brick, KCP brick, KCP foul


Need to make a run here


My goodness Caruso... throw it DOWN !


Tied up!!!


Dwight has played DPOY level tonight. Wow


Ah I see luka wants every call. Whining regularly now.


AD with 2 FTs tonight


Bron!!!  With a grown man move!!!


WOW LEBRON


Dude had his mind made up as soon as he got that strong board


Somebody get that bitch a tampon. 

My god I’ve never seen a kid this young cry about every single call that doesn’t go his way.


Ball don't lie. Shit call by refs on Bradley




Someone get that kid a wambulance.


Bwaha. Did you see him headbutt Dwight and look for a foul to be called on Dwights chin?



