


There are ways to write of people’s accomplishments without passing judgement on your readers. Subtitles like this “While you were tweeting away your quarantine, the former creative director of Barneys published two books” ignore circumstances around privilege, access, and wealth.


@Dina Richards 

Doonan is one of the Times' darlings that gets regular rotation. Overrated.


@Dina Richards Are you suggesting that an author needs to pass a morality test or a privilege / purity test before being permitted by to write a book?


@Matthew agreed!  It seems he and his husband are always featured in the times.  Can there be room for others perhaps?


@MS 

It appears there must be signed contracts. It really gets tiresome.


@MS and I thought I was the only one who noticed this....


One thing I hope the pandemic has done is cured a lot of Americans from wasting attention on glamour.


@Karl Perish the thought!


@Karl And who cares about Simon Doonan?


I remember reading his first book when I moved from San Francisco to rural Washington State. I found his book Confessions of a Window Dresser at the Jefferson County Library. It made me laugh and miss the city at the same time plus there were many great design tips.


"Confessions of a Window Dresser" - a fantastic book I bought many years ago - a laugh-out-loud tome about life for those of us with a glue gun and ingenuity.  Continued success to you, Simon!!


But does anyone care?


Cute hostile subtitle. Effective in being poor writing and also deterring readers from your piece.


@Chris Friedrich 

Poor writing includes the bizarre typo: "Be Yourself: Life-Changing Advice form a Reckless Contrarian”

"from", not "form"

It's been there since publishing up to 7:23PM as I write this. On the title of the thing in question. Strange Doonan lets it sit there like that.


I know plenty of people who did a lot more during the quarantine than tweet. I guess the NY Times doesn't consider frontline health professionals and other essential workers part of its readership.


Oh, how I wish I'd had the time to write two books during my pandemic quarantine!

Instead, I had to figure out how to make my grocery money go the furthest, how to stay in touch with the people I love and work with, and how to keep from running screaming down the street.


The true loss associated with Barney's demise is the disappearance of Mr. Doonan's windows on Madison Avenue, which were always a gift to the City.


Simon who?


Fashionistas get satisfaction from vanity.  A good many of us get satisfaction from steadfastly avoiding vanity.  Self-help requires a knowledge of self.


Except anti-fashion is fashion. I hope you are not older than 25 but I suspect you mind is stuck in a first year dorm room at age 40.


He brings to mind David Sedaris, except for the fact that he is not David Sedaris.


Oh please, scroogettes, 

I remember when I was in college and my very cool friends and I were turning up our noses at a third friend who had joined an all girl band, and now wore thigh high white patent leather boots under a disco ball on the weekends.

And a slightly older and wiser friend said, "you know what, some people have more fun than you do."


Overrated.
Overexposed.


@AlanB 

And cashing in on the slimmest of premises.


Sadness the window dresser's store closed and went bankrupt...
Both Simon Doonan and Keith Haring's "creations" are 
carefree playful and in general expressions of joy.
 Ironic then that Keith Haring was arrested multiple times
 for his subway art ...
and Mr. Doonan's work for Barneys is basically untouchable and viewed from behind plate-glass... 
there was a NY Times article the other day
Taylor Swift Is Singing Us Back to Nature...


The subtitle is clumsy and the typo unfortunate but I was happy to read that Simon Doonan has written two books. I have seen him a few times at Barneys and he was always fun and charming. I was surprised they had not kept him as creative director when Barneys changed ownership and thought of him the last time I went to see the legendary store for a last time before it closed. People like him have always aimed at bringing joy and frivolity - but also a smile - into others’ lives. Things we all need especially in dire times.


This guy is a genius. He was one of my inspirations as a child to get into forms of what used to be called commercial art. I am 50 and I grew up in a time when the fine art world snubbed anyone being creative for a corporation. I simply saw corporations as the new patrons, much as the Catholci Church once was and wanted to be in the elite like this guy where they fund your vision. Also this article is a reminder, I just got off social media as someone making the transition from art director, app developer moving into fine art and selling my own creations. I think I lost 8 years believing the lie social media was a good way to promote my own work. One of those years was dedicated to useless bickering on Twitter. I deleted my Linked In yesterday which was nothing but an artifact of my name dropping days in New York. I cringe at that person I was. Simon Doonan has spent a career making people smile. Even if one could not afford clothes at Barney’s his displays were art exhibitions. He also made being silly a serious endeavor and we need that again. Most of us will not ever achieve his stature but we can all be a little Simon Doonan. He and Fran Leibowitz are giving us good direction, be a little silly, be very imaginative and to Fran, be cynical so you never loose faith in the human spirit. Doonan is the human spirit and he is one of the pioneers in making creative direction a high art form. A bravo article.


I remember him from his days at the Chelsea Gym, at 8th Ave. and 17th St. (1980S) He seemed calm and collective, and had a small batch of friends that hung around him. One day, I saw him putting together windows at Barney's on 7th avenue and wondered who this man was. I guess I know now. I had my own career arc but was always impressed buy someone else's, who was near but not someone I ever knew, yet casually said hello to. (Sorry for the hanging preposition).


Did anyone see the hilarious  BBC TV series 'Beautiful People' from around 2008/2009 based on Simon Doonan's fabulous and witty book, which is about his early teenage years? None other than OLIVIA COLMAN played his mother in it, and she was sublime as always! I visited New York several times in the back in the day and his astoundingly creative windows were always a treat for me. And yeah, Barney's  was way out of reach for lots of people, but in the horrible mess of sameness that is the retail landscape today, I miss that type of inspired creativity.


Wonderful article that reminds me that real-world inspiration often comes from people who possess a kind of humility as well as creativity.  These people are often the antithesis of all those thirsty people desperately vying for our attention on various social media platforms in their search for relevance.


When I was a fledgling publicist, I mailed a letter to Simon Doonan a letter asking if he would feature my client’s product in one of his Barney’s window displays. He took the time to handwrite a thoughtful note thanking me for my idea and explaining why it was not possible. What a mensch!




While it is important for the government to make sure AI is not discriminating against minorities in job selection, eliminating the extreme race based economic inequity in this country will require a lot more than color blind employers- in fact, being color blind will likely perpetuate the problem.  

On the other hand, quotas favoring Black and Brown Americans are the cheap fix, but like most cheap fixes, fails to solve the problem because it addresses only the symptoms and in this case, creates destructive resentments from white applicants. 

Qualified workers for good paying jobs need to include a fair representation of all groups and this can't happen if Black and Brown children are disproportionately raised in poverty, go to poor schools and are surrounded by an overall culture that destroys their competitive competence and confidence before they are even teenagers.  

It would be great if capitalism could automatically solve this with some gentle steering against prejudice, partially because it would save tax payers a poopload of money, but the disadvantages of being raised in poverty can only be overcome with serious government intervention (practical investment) to level the playing field right from pre-natal care into college. 

We've been trying to solve this problem on the cheap for far too long.


@haigh 
"but the disadvantages of being raised in poverty can only be overcome with serious government intervention ..."

Serious government intervention like reducing the number of or outright eliminating charter schools and making school vouchers illegal. Is that part of your government solution?


@Old School s that part of your government solution?

Who cares about my solutions, there is plenty of research in how best to help kids handicapped by poverty keep up with more priviledged kids, but it costs money takes a long time for results and reduces that edge that comes from priviledge.

I have come to believe that that's the actual catch 22 to achieving racial justice in the U.S.-  people unwilling to help pay for a level playing field when it's tilted to their advantage but who are too embarrassed to even admit their motivation to themselves.


Your comment shows ur racial bias assuming everyone of a certain race is raised in poverty and with poor education...it’s been shown even with the same resume ppl with names that suggests they’re POC are less likely to be considered qualified


@haigh 
You made a statement about needing government intervention, but when I asked you to clarify what that meant, you avoiding giving an answer.
But I'll give you my answer. In my opinion, the government often (not always, but often enough to matter) does actual harm when it denies opportunities to children to get a decent education because the education industry favors government schools to the exclusion of all others. As far as paying for a level playing field, I donate more than ten percent of my fixed income to our parish school, because I know the children will receive a better education there than in our public schools and I believe that parents should be able to choose the school they want to children to attend.


@haigh 

Quotas are racism, full stop.


@haigh :"We've been trying to solve this problem on the cheap for far too long"

Sorry but it hasn't been on the cheap.  Detroit Public Schools receive the same per-student amount as the schools in my community.  As Detroit emerged from its last great awakening many cheered the path it was on with no one calling out lowering of standards in its public schools as well as the disintegration of the family structure.  Now come the latest generation of social justice warriors pointing out the wrongs of that same system.   Just can't catch a break.


If anyone thinks that hiring and promotional practices are discriminatory now, wait until someone feeds into an AI algorithm some assessment center criteria that companies copied from predictors of success that the OSS used during WW2 to select spies. It might winnow down the pool to precisely what they were ask for, but eliminate some great talent that they didn't even know that would have worked out for them to everyone's benefit.


Why not just make this stuff illegal? There seems to be no shortage of HR people; let them do their jobs.


@Peter Johnston 
The use of algorhythms to screen job applications is done to eliminate the need for living HR personnel and proves to be a very inefficient replacement. The binary nature of many of these programs exclude many qualified candidates and as a result companies and institutions who use them frequently struggle to find people to fill their positions.
From a personal example, the software used by many public school systems eliminates candidates based on set criteria with no flexibility. I applied for a position in April for the following school year and was rejected because the criteria was for 5 years experience and I had only 4 years 10 months at that time. I would have had the 5 years by June, well before the upcoming start date but there was no consideration of that fact. It was yes or no at that moment in time and the application process stopped at that point. And schools wonder why they cannot find qualified applicants?



