


It's about that time of year!  As always, I will be using this thread to post every Deputy Sheriff and Police Officer exam announcement being offered in the fall of 2018.  I will keep this thread as updated as possible.  Please feel free to post an exam announcement as you find them!



Rochester Police Department: https://www.cityofrochester.gov/app.aspx?id=8589934617



Wayne County Sheriff: https://web.co.wayne.ny.us/hr_applic...iff%20exam.pdf



Wayne County Police Officer: https://web.co.wayne.ny.us/hr_applic...Off%20exam.pdf



Niagara County Deputy Sheriff/Police Officer: http://www.niagaracounty.com/Employm...am_detail=2857



Oneida County Deputy Sheriff/Police Officer: http://ocgov.net/oneida/sites/defaul...9%2360-029.pdf







So far, NYS Park Police and Onondaga County have tentatively announced exams, but you cannot apply as of yet.


Glen Cove will be having one. http://www.cityofglencoveny.org/Postings/po.htm



So is Middletown http://middletown-ny.com/en/doc-cent...2018/file.html



The only two I found so far.


Don’t bother applying to Glen Cove unless you have residency.


What’s the salary like for Middletown?


Roughly estimating I believe starting base is around 63k going up to top pay of 86k.


You can't apply unless you're a resident.


I know, that’s why I said that lol.


Can’t find anything else. I’ve been seeing links about exams that will be given the following year.


Thanks for the update guys.  If you find any, please post them here and i'll update the list


Batavia just announced their test  http://co.genesee.ny.us/departments/...er1oc65746.php


You can submit applications for NY Park Police starting on June 29th.


Binghamton Police Department: http://www.binghamton-ny.gov/sites/d...cer%202018.pdf


Genesee County Sheriff: http://co.genesee.ny.us/departments/...ff1oc65623.php

Batavia/LeRoy/Corfu Police Officer: http://co.genesee.ny.us/departments/...er1oc65746.php


Can an admin please approve my posts that have the entire list so I do not have to post only one or two links at a time?


Delaware county police and sheriff exams are out


Delaware County Sheriff: http://www.co.delaware.ny.us/departm...ff%2062864.pdf



Delaware County Police Officer: http://www.co.delaware.ny.us/departm...er%2063074.pdf


New York State Park Police: https://www.cs.ny.gov/examannounceme.../oc/26-540.cfm



Onondaga County Sheriff/Syracuse Police: http://www.ongov.net/employment/jobs/exams/ex98050.htm




Town of Colonie Police https://www.colonie.org/departments/...R%20OC%202.pdf

Yates County Deputy Sheriff https://mycivilservice.yatescounty.org/exams

Yates County Police Officer https://mycivilservice.yatescounty.org/exams


Chautauqua County Deputy Sheriff/Police Officer http://chautauqua.ny.us/Document Cent...65553-OC?bid Id=

Herkimer County http://herkimercounty.org/content/De.../File/6517.pdf

Columbia County Deputy Sheriff https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&p...WM0MW JkOG ZlM Dg

Columbia County Police Officer https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&p...mFiNjBkMzA3M Tk




Hi all, I put my application in for Suffolk Auxiliary Police and just had a few questions. I know you can't carry on duty until after an 18 month probation period, but someone told me that you could still take the firearms training before that time to just get it done and than not carry until your 18 months are up. Is that true or can you not even take the class until your 18 months are up? Would it be possible to take the 47 hour firearm course elsewhere?

Thanks for any help


Patience is a virtue. Wait the amount of time and then see if you are eligible to carry a firearm. They're going to want their own in-house training done for firearms.


Have you been approved/ went through the process yet?




I’m not sure what happened to the 2017 PAPD topic. It’s gone all of the sudden.





I’m processing from the first batch. I already finished background and I’m still waiting on a call/email for the psych and medical exams. I know that some people were already called. Is anyone still waiting?


I was looking for the original 2017 thread as well. I was going to post to say that they did another lottery round from those applications from 2017 that were not already selected to move forward. Once again, lady luck was not on my side. Maybe they'll get to a third lottery in 2019!


Finished my background Investigation, was told I would hear from the board If I got approved mid - late June, anyone else just finish their investigation recently?


I finished background, written+oral psych, and the medical in mid-May. Now I'm just waiting for any information.


i started gathering some of the paperwork and man its a lot more tedious than the nypd was


Got my letter of employment today. Anyone get anything?


Got mine too! Congratulations.


Did they mail you guys the letter or email? Just curious how many oral Phycs did you take and did they schedule you for a medical right after?


By email. One oral psych and medical the week after. Getting two oral appointments is bad news for most


Same. One oral and the medical a few days after.


Cool guys thanks for the advice. When did you guys take your medical? Do you remember the date?


Xxxxxxxxxx


Hey all - I want to sell some of the PT gear ( 4 shorts blue and a pair of sweatpants also blue), 4 grey shirts and a pair of navy blue pants. Let me know if you interested and i will give sizes and price.


The physical is in depth, they do chest x-rays, eyes, hearing, breathing, ekg, full body scan, blood work and urine. They shouldn't DQ you because you had surgery. Did you take the Oral Psych yet? How many did you have to take?


I had reconstructive surgery on my hip and have seven screws, but still passed. As long as you’re able to get the documentation they request from your surgeon, you should be fine


Did any do the medical BEFORE doing the Pysch? It seems like everyone does the pysch THEN the medical but it seems like im doing the medical FIRST. Just seeing if anyone has the same experience. Thanks


Well I never had surgery. I healed through physical therapy and time. My doctors didn’t think I needed it. I just don’t want port authority to see me as a liability even though my shoulder is fine.


how long after the written till you get results


Has anyone heard anything from papd in regards to the oral psyc or medical for the 2018 September academy yet?


Has anyone heard anything from papd in regards to the oral psyc or medical for the 2018 September academy yet?


Got my results in email yesterday. Next step is physical fitness test


Hey  I did all the steps finished with my medical last week. How long until you heard something?  Did you receive a letter in the mail or an email ?? Is it safe to say if you are asked to come back for a medical you passed your oral ??




Hey all, is anybody going through the process for the PAPD’s April 2019 academy?


Yes many of us are!


Did you have your home interview?


I had my home interview two weeks ago but haven’t heard anything yet. Seeing where you guys are at in the process.


did anyone at the medical get referred to a 3rd party ophthalmologist for further color vision testing? and if so how did it turn out?


I have my appointment early next month. I was curious of the same thing.


For people that were deferred from 117 to 118, when and what do you think we should expect in the coming months? I know I talked to some of you in private messages but curious for others. Some of you guys had medical not too long ago, so you think it's a whole medical or just blood and drug test? There is good amount of us like bablax17 stated.


I had my home interview yesterday. 



Just wondering what is the next step? thanks


Hello Had my home interview last Friday. How many month I suppose to wait to do the psych exam ? Thanks


Any update for 118?


Who hasn't been called or email yet? I still haven't heard anything yet


Anybody have updates on 118? How many recruits are they taking & when do you think we will get the letter of employment? Goodluck to you all, excited to see what happens!


Believe everyone is still waiting, i hope early 2019


I took my medical 11/13. Did anybody receive anything yet for date 

of physical fitness test at the armory? 

Thanks


how do you hear back from the review board if you were approved or not? by letter mail or email?


You will receive an email stating that the next steps


Anyone??  Any info appreciated


Does anyone know, heard, or know anyone that have been DQed  because he/she did not signup for Selective Services?


Anyone that got deferred hear anything? Hoping they reach out to us early 2019. Curious as to what a mini med and background encompasses.




You passed everything alresdy!?


Bablax, several others and I are from the 117 process and we passed everything but got deferred to class 118 due to 117 filing up. And by the way Bablax, have not heard anything, probably next year like you stated.


Passed everything back in the middle of the summer, unfortunately they filled 117 so a bunch of people who passed all the parts for 117 and getting deferred into the 118 academy.


For everyone from 117 that got deferred, they started sending out emails asking if we are still interested in attending the 118 academy. I did not receive one yet but my buddy did


Bablax did he receive it today? I didnt get anything yet either, but within the coming week hopefully.


Today at 12pm, to summarize the email, basically stated with the new year closing in, they needed to know if he was interested in attending the 118 class ASAP


Does PAPD send a y letters certified mail ?

Thanks


i completed the process and never received one, so i am going to have to say no. Most, if not all the communication is via Email.


Since they are emailing deferred candidates, I am sure they are getting the ball moving now. We should probably see emails anytime from now until the end of January I am going to guess


Hope so waiting is tough.  Probably seeing who is still interested from the 117th.  Then moving forward with 118 group.


Did anyone else receive an email from 117 asking if we are still interested in processing for 118?


Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays to all.... the waiting game still rolls on!


Any word on 118 yet?


does anyone know if we are able to appeal their DQ decision? I have passed multiple psychs for other departments and was hired by one of them not too long ago, so I feel their decision is not correct. I am going to try and contact them and find out for sure, but if anyone has any info they can share, that would be appreciated! thanks and good luck to you all!


You already got a letter of DQ? If so, when did you receive it?


Jschneid97 I got it yesterday afternoon


The reason they give you multiple Psych's is for this reason, so you cannot appeal and/or sue them


How many oral psych interviews did you through?


i went through 2


Has anyone heard anything about the new contract for 2019?


my investigator did my home visit about a month ago and also spoke to my neighbors. a few days ago he came for a second time but just to talk to my neighbors again when i wasnt here. he spoke to the same neighbors. Has this happened to anyone here?


I was failed on 1 oral psych, so that multiple psych rumor is probably bullchit




They came out so I think they have to speak to someone regardless if they spoke to them last time?


Top pay now $124k base with 9 years to top pay, they need to pay 2.5% of their salary into their medical.


Any new news yet? Any update would be helpful


Nothing yet , still waiting


There’s still a group of people who justbfinished the background and are starting the psych this week. I wonder if they’ll start moving forward or if they’re gonna wait a few more weeks until they do the medical


What's starting?


Hey guys, I have my first psyc on Wednesday ! 118th candidate! Heard its pretty simple though. The key is honesty


I was deferred to 118 class, got email for mini med recently. I think u will get it soon. The email doesn't come from papd but the ppl from medical division so check your spam.


Giants24 I got mine as well last week. I want to see if we still have to do a mini background as well?


It's.... interesting. Wouldn't say Simple.


Did any 117 holdovers do the mini med yet or have if scheduled soon?


I have mine Early February


i have mine next week


Around $40k


Anyone else get an email today?


Did you receive the invitation?


Yes I did earlier today.


Invitation for what?


Invintation to the academy


i  wonder how many waves of emails/ how often do they send them out


Not sure but apparently they are sending out invitations to people processing for 118 before those who were deferred from 117.


Did you start processing in September or were you deferred from 117?


I started in September




Got the email as well yesterday! Would love to find out more about the contract just released. Is it still 20 years, is overtime pensionable? Also for anybody in the academy now whats the parking like? Excited is an understatement!



