


A Virginia school district on Friday asked the U.S. Supreme Court to decide whether schools must allow transgender students to use restrooms consistent with their gender identity.



The appeal came in the long-running case of transgender student Gavin Grimm, who was barred by a policy of the Gloucester County school district from using the boys’ restroom at his high school. A federal appeals court ruled last year that the district’s policy violated Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which bars sex discrimination in federally funded schools, and the 14th Amendment’s equal-protection clause.





In its appeal in Gloucester County School Board v. Grimm, the Virginia district acknowledges that several federal appeals courts have joined with the one that ruled in Grimm’s case, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit, in Richmond, Va., in favor of a broad reading of transgender student rights under Title IX and the equal-protection clause.


	

	


Use the restroom with your biological sex and be done with it or have a separate uinisex restroom installed specifically for trans kids. But no. Here we are screwing around with Title IX.


Disir, keep 'em coming! Like your posts are exposing the most obnoxiously ridiculous antics of the most absurdly ludicrous g'ment employees we have employed in the entire union!!! I'm loving this!


Looks like we need crotch recognition software and auto locks.

one the system saw my little beauty the lock would spin out of control.




Faced with complaints from parents about the indoctrination of children, an official in Rockwood School District, Missouri, instructed teachers to create two sets of curriculum: a false one to share with parents, and then the real set of curriculum, focused on topics like activism and privilege.



These instructions were sent to all middle and high school principals in the district.



Sending your kids to public school is the equivalent to child abuse.


This has been going on since the 1980's. Faggots hate it when sane people interfere with their child grooming operations.


These assholes who are intentionally deceiving parents should never be able to work in the education business again.


The Daily Wire - Media Bias Fact Check 




		
		
	


	
		
	









https://mediabiasfactcheck.com/fake-news/


The attack the source trope doesn't work when the event was confirmed by the School District in question: From the OP's linked article.









Got anything else?


Well apparently something is going on there. Here is a more ballanced account from a local publication.  



Culture struggle over equity and race rages in Rockwood School District | Education | stltoday.com













It appears that the staff redacted some content rather than draft two entirely different lesson plans. I will reserve judgement as to whether staffs actions  were right or wrong, justified or not.



However, I will say that it is damned shame that  it was necessary to do so just in order to teach kids about diversity and prepare them for adult life .These parents are ignorant, hysterical snowflakes .  And they are probobly racists as well



This is not about indocrinating kids or making whitre kids feel bad about their privilege and it is not about teach them to be activiists or Democrats. 



What is this " critical Race Theory?



critical race theory | Definition, Principles, & Facts | Britannica 











It is tesching that we are more alike than different. It is making them aware of the fact that racism is real and oppression and inequality is ingrained in the fabric of society. Anyone who thinks that is not true and /or that it should not be part of children's education is a damned fool who will raise fools, and bigots rather than children who respect racial andcultural differences.



Having said that, let the shit storm begin


lol joke post. 'Critcal Race Theory' is total rubbish and not a real thing, it's a propaganda hack invented to spread violence and terror.


.Thank you for that brilliant and thoughtful analysis of an important social issue.  Clearly you have advanced degrees from the finest universities in sociology, psychology and education. Please continue to share your wisdom and insights with us. We are egar to learn more from you. I am especially interested in better understanding of how critical race theory spreads violence and terror


All you Nazis have is shoot the messenger.


	
		
			Culture struggle over equity and race rages in Rockwood School District | Education | stltoday.com
		
	



	
		
			Rockwood teachers receive email instructing them to hide lesson material from parents


It’s so great you need to lie to parents to cover it up.


The Proles can't be allowed to know and have a say in how their children are educated. 



Screw math, science and real history, it's all about how to figure out your position on the pity totem pole.


And then you post pic of examples of them. Thanks.

 






And then you post a pic of examples of them. Thanks. We all already know how worthless and sick most faggots who major in those fields have rendered them utterly useless as intellectual disciplines, and certainly not 'science'.


Really? That's  all that you have to say. Clearly you are real deep thinker LOL. You started this shit but obviously can't finish it


And then you post a pic of examples of them. Thanks. We all already know how worthless and sick most faggots who major in those fields have rendered them utterly useless as intellectual disciplines, and certainly not 'science'.



Thank you again for sharing your brilliant insights and vast knowledge. God bless you


Thank you again for sharing your brilliant insights and vast knowledge. God bless you





Don't need any gratitude from sicko faggots, so go suck up to some of your pervert buddies.


Another nothing story.  Not my district....yawn.


Don't need any gratitude from sicko faggots, so go suck up to some of your pervert buddies.



I  see. You are not bright enough to actually deal with the topic, so all you can do is resort to childish insults like a 2nd grade special ed. student Got it. 



You seem to havehomosexuality on your mind a lot. Anything that you want to get off of your chest?


How is that possible when curriculum is state mandated and available to all on line?


So, a lazy parent who doesn't know what their kids are learning by simply looking at the curriculum on line?


Lazy is the least of it. They are small minded and intelectually limited snowflakes who have wipped themselves into an hysterical frenzy over and issue that they do not even understand




The first report cards of the school year are arriving with many more Fs than usual in a dismal sign of the struggles students are experiencing with distance learning.



School districts from coast to coast have reported the number of students failing classes has risen by as many as two or three times — with English language learners and disabled and disadvantaged students suffering the most.



“It was completely off the rails from what is normal for us, and that was obviously very alarming,” said Erik Jespersen, principal of Oregon’s McNary High School, where 38% of grades in late October were failing, compared with 8% in normal times.





Educators see a number of factors at play: Students learning from home skip assignments — or school altogether. Internet access is limited or inconsistent, making it difficult to complete and upload assignments. And teachers who don’t see their students in person have fewer ways to pick up on who is falling behind, especially with many keeping their cameras off during Zoom sessions.


	

	
		
			
				
					
						
					
				
			
			
				
					
						Schools confront 'off the rails' numbers of failing grades
					
				

				The first report cards of the school year are arriving with many more Fs than usual in a dismal sign of the struggles students are experiencing with distance learning. School districts from...

				
					
						
							
						
					
					apnews.com
				
			
		
	


You gotta love that ending as if it's about effort.  There were already studies that showed online learning was a failure where it was in place. Very few students can pull that off. More power to them for those that can but for those that can't? I hope that in the future everyone remembers how this pans out and can tell the billionaire clowns and corps to stop shoving it down our throats.  



Kids/adults/humans learn in different ways.


It appears that I was wrong about distance learning on a mass scale



I know the liberal influence in our schools is bad for society and I was happy to see the lib educators lose their tight grip on the students



but very few parents and virtually no single welfare moms in the ghetto are equipped to handle home schooling



if this report turns out to be a fact I’m all for reopening the public schools



if the teachers are too afraid of the wiflu to attend classes fire them and hire replacements


I've been expecting this. 



We have had serious issues with distance learning and we have a smart kid and smart, well off parents, with the time and energy and resources to handle shit. 



ANYONE with less, was obviously going to be really struggling. 





How many kids will fall behind and be permanently harmed by this? 





And this is just ONE facet of the cost of the lock down.


Teachers don't make the call. You would think with as many articles as have come out that they did run the show but they don't.  It's like advertising for a Wheaties cereal.
	

	
	
		
		

		
			
		
		
	


	
		
	


 



In our area the health department or the board makes the call. Even the superintendent doesn't matter.


The teachers union has a lot of day over the decision and they have loudly supported shutdown



but the schools in my state are not shut down and opened only a couple of weeks late


Not here. But, I noticed something the last few years that I thought was hilarious.  Our teachers went on strike a few years ago without the "permission" from the union.  You should have heard them struggling to act like they were in control of the situation. It was comic relief.   The governor at the time talked to them like children. They kept saying there was a teacher shortage. They just refused to pay the teachers and they were forced to go to Texas to teach. We had teachers working 3 jobs to make ends meet. 



Unions were worth a damn at one time but if they aren't willing to work towards fixing things then they are completely useless.


Not to worry....if Biden is elected all will be fixed.



"Federal Child Academic Excellence Adjustment Program"



Lower the standards, raise the child.   F = C, C = A



Voila!  Every child is an instant genius


The bad thing is there are children‘s parents that can not afford internet or a number of computers. Those children may not even be in this because they were not graded. You actually have to be in class to be graded.


Not to worry!



With the election of the Honorable Joseph R. Biden, Jr., and especially the Honorable Kamala D. Harris, the schools will be very generous in their grading practices.



Dems are very understanding and sweet people who love to give the benefit of the doubt to other human beings.  So because of this terrible pandemic, the schools will simply give every student at least a gentleman's (lady's) grade of "C." Then nobody will fail.



In fact, way before this pandemic, some schools had been thinking about abolishing the whole system of grades, lest they cause low self-esteem among some students.


When educators can't even identify the best method of teaching, why should we expect the subjective, opinion based bullshit they teach to be any better? By the way, Trump knew this from the beginning. Overturn this crooked election before this country makes its biggest mistake in history.


Actually, they have identified it but the powers that be don't like that. 




	

	
		
			
				
					
						
							
						
					
				
			
			
				
					
						MI Oasis
					
				

				The Official Authoritative Site of Multiple Intelligences     Learn More

				
					
						
							
						
					
					www.multipleintelligencesoasis.org


You know that isn't true.  I don't like either one of those freaks but if we could just slap the hell out of them for their actual stupidity that would be great.


This is very true. A lot of students are out there trying very hard to keep up and keep on point, but those students who already enjoyed certain advantages are best equipped to manage this strange new world of education.


???????


Thousands of laptops and chromebooks have been distributed to students who cannot afford a computer.


Someone suggested we just cancel school all together until the kids can go back.  So everyone will be a year older when they graduate, big deal.  That doesn't solve the problem of all the school employees that will be out of work, but it would probably be the best solution for the kids.



