


Let the countries in the Middle  East sort out their own differences. The conflicts are hundreds of years old, the diplomacy among them is duplicitous, and we are no longer dependent on the oil from that region.

There will always be tension, conflict, and aggression there. No reason for American resources to be wasted in a part of the world that does not seek peace. Our resources can be better used here in the U.S.


Great comment, Cliff!


While true it is the American businesses who keep us there through Republican and Democrat administrations. And their paying politicians for favorable legislation.
No amount of money can change the attitude in the Middle East.


We comitted a stupid act. The Iranians retaliated. It's time for us to declare a draw and try to shift the fool's attention to impeachment.


Will diplomacy satisfy the hordes in the streets of Iran?   Will it save face for its leaders?   And even if it would, is there anyone in this administration to fill that role?   For every action, is there an equal and opposite reaction?


Remember that we invaded Irak for absolutely no reason!


We invaded Iraq, acting on the best information we had at the time, because we believed they had WMD.


Cheney and Rumsfeld manipulated the intelligence to make it appear Iraq had WMDs. There were people in our government at the time who warned that the intelligence was being manipulated and there was no actual evidence of WMDs. We were deliberately lied to.


Even Bush & Cheney & Rumsfeld knew the information was bogus. Many of us pointed it out and the likes of you were dismissive with highly derogatory name-calling - your VP even called us traitors. As Haley is now implying about Iran.

So go hide in your hole.




The comments posted seem to criticize black for this problem.  About like criticizing the female because she was raped.  Same culture.


If only the consumption of sugary soft drinks were the greatest problem facing the nation.


If the concern is that “people of color” are targeted by TV advertising, why are only black people referenced? Is this a deliberately targeted snub of brown, yellow
and red people?

If the concern is that black teenagers see more ads for sugary drinks that white teenagers, just instruct blacks teenagers  to close their eyes.


They also hear a lot more songs about beating down biches in the street.


*sigh* 

And if all of the ads had only white people in them, there would be complaints about that too.

If black teenagers see more ads then white teenagers, maybe black parents need to have better control of how much TV their kids watch?


And which shows!


I think you are confused. It's not just TV adds but includes billboard, placement of dispensing machines, how grocery store shelves are stocked and placement of inventory.


Idk about inner city grocery stores but the ones I patronize feature soft drinks of all stripes pretty prominently with their own aisle!




Trump’s lies about the pandemic were a grave dereliction of duty
Just add it to the list.


Whose panic ??  The leaders of European nations, Asian nations and south Pacific nations all stood up and told their constituents the truth about the virus and they are bringing it under control. No panic is evident in those nations.

In our own country, State Governors stood up and told the truth about the virus -- no panic ensued. Indeed, some of these Governors enjoy very high rates of support and approval within their own jurisdictions (ex,. DeWine, Cuomo).

The "panic" is centered -- like everything else he considers -- on Trump's own life.


But concerning our national security, what about this?

Trump Health Aide Falsely Alleges Conspiracies and Warns of Armed Revolt

Michael Caputo, the assistant secretary of health for public affairs, told a Facebook audience without evidence that left-wing hit squads were being trained for insurrection, and he accused C.D.C. scientists of “sedition.”

https://www.nytimes.com/2020/09/14/us/caputo-virus.html?action=click&module=Top%20Stories&pgtype=Homepage


Trump’s lies about the pandemic ARE a grave dereliction of duty. He continues to lie about it every day.


Ground for impeachment


Grounds for imprisonment.


In fact, as he told Mr. Woodward on Feb. 7, he knew the virus was transmissible through the air, that it was “deadly stuff,” “more deadly than even your strenuous flus.” 
Why hasn't any reporter called out trump's use of the word 'strenuous'? The definition is ‘requiring or using great exertion.’ (http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/us/ ) Since when does a virus exert itself to infect organisms? Mr. Non-science strikes again! 

But don’t forget to Vote BLUE, no matter who, no matter how on November 3, 2020 (or earlier) in federal and local elections! Too bad we can't remove Trump from office any sooner.

And fight voter suppression. It is vital that all qualified voters can execute the constitutional right to vote. Donate to Stacy Abrams' organization, Fair Fight at https://fairfight.com/

Plan your vote. Information about voting early and voting by mail, organized by state and county at https://www.usvotefoundation.org/vote/eoddomestic.htm


People who believe Trump's lies about this virus should ask themselves, if it's as inconsequential as he says--no worse than the flu, will disappear miraculously (soon!)--why is he pushing so hard for a vaccine (Operation Warp Speed, anyone)? If it's nothing--a hoax--why not just sit back and wait for it to go away?

Why? Because he KNOWS it's bad and has known all along!


Pence knew also!


DrRump's MAGAott brigade was out yesterday saying that had their Fuehrer told the truth , there would have been "Runs on Banks, Grocery Stores, and Hospitals "
Instead we are having  runs on Mortuaries, Morgues, and Freezer Trucks ( for body storage) .

The Very Stable Floor Genius has managed to get 200,000 citizens killed and this is just the beginning. Every member of his GOPstopo Assministration should be tried for war crimes.


When Trump said he wanted to avoid a 'panic' - it was a 'Wall Street' panic.
Ordinary people's lives - apparently not so much...
Blue States? 
Not really.


When a third world leader commits war crimes and kills a couple of hundred thousand he faces the international court.  Why is there no such thing when a leader is derelict in his duty and responsible for 200 thousand deaths?


Take heart, Papa Terry. Perhaps that will happen. This is a quote from https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2020/09/14/trump-joins-worlds-worst-human-rights-violators-waging-war-icc/
The ICC is a court of last resort; it acts only if national authorities refuse to do so. Trump could actually blunt any impetus for ICC action by taking serious steps to investigate and punish U.S. personnel guilty of misconduct in Afghanistan. But by pardoning alleged war criminals, he is doing the opposite — sending an arrogant message of impunity for U.S. misconduct.


The real issue is NOT that Trump withheld knowledge of the severity of COVID-19 to avoid panic (or for any other reason).  The high airborne transmissivity, much higher mortality rate than flu, and the potential for 2 million US deaths without distancing etc. were well known and had been published in January.   

What Trump did was not "downplay", but publicly, actively, deny and refute the understanding that he had, that CDC had, and that other governments had and acted upon.   

That's not avoiding panic, that's creating chaos at the cost of delaying the unpanicked response that would have saved thousands of lives if acted upon in a timely, coordinated, unpanicked manner - i.e. if he had shown a glimmer of true national leadership.


It's 2020, not 2016, and it's now crystal clear that this buffoon alone couldn't fix America.  But he has certainly delivered American carnage and hate-mongering.   Vote him out on 3 November, or earlier via mail!


It is no longer about any one lie or attempt to deceive; trump can only be judged now by the collection of those.  The fact that he maintains a 35%+ approval rating both angers and saddens me, as the idea that so many of my fellow citizens outright refuse to believe truth no matter how many sources bring it to them.

I have started to remove old friends from my life, those few who are still rabid trump supporters.  It bothers me, but I can no longer ignore their moral shortcomings by following and championing him in the ways they do.  I just cannot take it anymore; it is too bad, because they are(were) all good people, and I will miss them, but my concern is greater than my personal friendships.  My concern is for the health and longevity of this ALREADY GREAT nation.  FWIW.


Honesty doesn't sell.

     What is amazing to me, is that I have heard Trump supporters say he tells it like it is: Trump tells the truth, unlike his/her impression of 'Politicians'.

      Somehow, lies have become the imagined truth. Sci-fi realtime in the 21st century. California, Oregon and Washington States burning it takes Trump 3 weeks to make a visit... What is going on here?


Trump is beyond redemption.  What I worry about is the 40 million Americans who simply don't care that Trump intentionally put their lives at risk and that by Election Day a quarter million people will have died in order to secure his reelection.  Not only will they vote for him again, but they will support his attempts to compare himself favorably to Churchill or Lincoln or FDR for his handling of the crisis!


Trump's entire life is about a lack of understanding of the consequences of his own actions.

Daddy always bailed Donnie out of his bankruptcies.... now Putin is Trump's daddy.

The only good thing that came of the Woodward recordings and interviews is a real life look at Trump, in his own words, a man too stupid to understand the consequences of his own actions which was to allow Woodward the kind of access no political consultant would have ever recommended.

Trump's hubris has given us the final piece to all the other reasons to cancel his reality TV show in NOV.


...the add we need to see (hello lincoln project) is the red phone lights up at 03:00, traitorchump is still up, & gorging on cheeseburgers, while watching tucker & txting poo-tin on his unsecured phone, getting his morning (mourning) instructions,.. When he is alerted; jong-dung-il has launched a missile ... Oh no!
Pootin txts " no worries" and thus TC rolls over and begins to snore soundly ... Next scene; a mushroom cloud over the washington monument in an apocalyptic sky w/ the bold text, "who can you really trust" ?
... please iitoi, as i pray to the am sunrise ... may you see fit to sit on this traitors chest ... help him appreciate the simple things, like his next breath ... have him gasping like a toothless carp....and then discard him to be burned as the biohazard he represents. First here in his bodybag, then again for all eternity. ...
Chumps greatest gift (& hopefully his master plan ) will be the full exposure & rapid expiration of the intellectually & morally dead rethugliCON cartel ... may the most treasonous, putrid, & deceitful members die with it.


As Maya Angelou (God rest her soul) used to say, "When a person shows you who they are, believe them the first time."


Didn't want to cause panic? During my lifetime I've seen great support and helpfulness among people during a crisis. Not panic. What is Trump talking about?


The pretend president.   https://youtu.be/yaQnX2Zomyw


Trump's irrational concern about creating panic by being honest with the American people is one of the MOST unbelievable lies of his entire Presidency.

Want proof?

Just observe the lack of panic in the several States that grappled successfully with the onset of the virus (ex. Andrew Cuomo/New York) and in all of the nations of Europe, and in South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Canada, China, Singapore, etc.

Overwhelmingly -- NO panic !!!   Instead -- growing management.

What is/was different in all those well led countries and the United States ??  One person -- Donald Trump.

Trump owns the disaster of the pandemic in America. We must fire him and install a leader in the White House.

51 days.


Trump's lies were intentional and directed to support his national "do nothing" strategy to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic.

Trump and Republicans' insanely thought that somehow COVID-19  would somehow respect state borders and only stay in the portions first hit hardest by the pandemic.

Trump and Republicans knew where those places would be and who would be hit hardest because from Jan. through Sept., 2019 HHS gamed out what would happen if we got hit by a bird flu-like disease emerging out of Central Chinese open food markets. It was called "Crimson Contagion" and in pages 46-51 of the Oct. 2019 After Action Report, maps and conclusions outline our unpreparedness and pinpointed the Upper MidWest and Northeast as where the pandemic would hit first and hardest.  

https://int.nyt.com/data/documenthelper/6824-2019-10-key-findings-and-after/05bd797500ea55be0724/optimized/full.pdf

Kushner and Co. and the sham Coronavirus Coordinating Committee decided politcally to let people get infected and die because it would only kill off "blue state" or Democratic voters and we got Trump's strategy admitted to publicly. 

60-80% of COVID-19 killed in Milwaukee County, Allegheny County (Pittsburgh) and Philadelphia PA and in Wayne County MI (Detroit) are from among Blacks, Latinx, immigrant and elderly on Social Security,  NOT Republican voters.

40-60% of COVID-19 killed in VA, NC, SC, GA, FL,MS, AL, CO, TX, NM, NV, AZ are from among the same communities across the nation as a result of the "do nothing" national strategy of Trump and Republicans. 

McConnell and Senate Republicans will not do anything to jeopardize their efforts to keep power for elderly, wealthy, privileged, WASP, morbidly obese males like Trump, Barr and Pompeo. Average Americans, small busineses, states and local goivernments get squat for relief because the HEROES Act for all that has been on Mitch's desk for over 100 days.   

It's not "gross dereliction of duty," it's mass murder on a national scale.



