


Not to be facetious, but there will be no "after Putin." He expects to rule from Hell.


This is critical. We really need to think about what happens after Putin.

The expose of his $1.3 billion palace was like oil on a fire. Russians have had a hard time with covid, and the idea that their health services have been allow to deteriorate for the sake of a palace (that wasn't even constructed properly the first time) is galling.

Most of the people at the demos were young working class men, angry over their lot--and Putin's.

Russia is headed for some very bad times. If Putin wins, it becomes another Venezuela or Syria. If he loses, we need to insure a decent govt comes in his place.



Here's the video that started it all:

(No wonder PUtin tried to poison Navalny!)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ipAnwilMncI


Before even the deep cleaning took place in the White House last Wed., the direct line to Moscow was removed as well.


“The president also ordered an intelligence assessment on .... reports that Russia placed bounties on U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan.”

Oh, really.  President Biden needs to be careful what he asks for. Here is what NBC News is reporting:

U.S. commander: Intel still hasn't established Russia paid Taliban 'bounties' to kill U.S. troops
"It just has not been proved to a level of certainty that satisfies me," Gen. Frank McKenzie told NBC News. McKenzie oversees U.S. troops in Afghanistan.
https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/national-security/u-s-commander-intel-still-hasn-t-established-russia-paid-n1240020

Seems Iran is the only country that is really offering bounties to kill US Troops in Afghanistan and they are paying it with the Billions of Dollars the Biden-Obama Administration gave them.  That’s why the Troops call it “The Biden Bounty.”


Hey Col Ret, did you pull that out of your Brown Eye?


People not bright enough to attack the comment attack the commenter.


So, you did pull this crap out of your rear end!


No, I’m just passing on what NBC News was reporting. Pull your head out of your 4th point of contact and you’ll be able to read it for yourself.


Gosh, now your just smelling your fingers.


As much as it disgusts everyone, the money you mention was, in fact, originally Iran's property and was held hostage in response to that nation's hijinks. And if you are, indeed, a 30-year colonel, you know that to be true.


Whether Biden “gave” Iran the Billions of dollars or “gave them back” the Billions, either way the money paying the ransom for killing American Troops came from Biden. That’s why the Troops call it the “Biden Bounty.”


All Propaganda IS Lies.  THE POST abuses its obsessive-compulsive Putin-Russo-hating editorializing by NEVER missing an opportunity to agitate with their replete list of false and discredited allegations against the Kremlin.
THE POST refuses to own up to the facts.  The Truth Matters.


We have to destroy the Kremlin.

What's your point?


Thank you, Russian agent.


Joe Biden I am afraid is not Ronald Regan, US policy towards Russia is bankrupt,
sanction's have only made Putin stronger, he reacted to them by banning food imports from Europe.
Russia in 20years of Putin, has come from been a net importer of wheat to been the no1 exporter, they are self sufficient in pork, bought apple tree in stead of apples cows instead of milk etc:
Supplied cheap land to Dutch/German/south African farmers that have fast tracked and modernised the farmer section of the economy.
Sanction on the oil and gas meant that US companies had to leave and give their stakes in the fields to the Russian state.
Not very cleaver is it, take a look at the youths on the streets this weekend, they are well dressed and look educated,  trade with Russia instead of sanction's and they will embrace the west, Putin will not be around for long after.
Going on with the same failed policy is only sending Russia with it mineral resources in to the hands of China.
Wake up America you have not got a lot of time to waste.


nice to not have a Russia asset in the WH anymore....


Our entire foreign policy re: Russia under Trump was driven by one thing - pee pee tapes.


Trump, his seditionists & their GOP enablers are traitors & most are detached from reality. They should all be rounded up, charged & imprisoned. While in prison, they should receive psychological counseling & be forcibly re-educated... or sent to China to let the Chinese government have their way with them.


Biden should offer Putin nothing but a miserable time.


In light of Russia's massive hack on the US government & businesses, the attempted poisoning & arrest of Navalny, brutal suppression of his supporters & interference in American elections, it's time for the US, Canada & like-minded nations to implement serious sanctions. Trump is finally gone so it's time to start taking Russia's attacks & threats seriously.


Putin’s calculations are how can he maintain power domestically and how can he consolidate his geographical gains (Ukraine) while seeking to exert more force to strengthen his claims on ownership of resources under the Arctic ice cap. Putin’s as trustworthy as the athlete drug testing at Sochi was clean.

Regarding Comments, if the WaPo is choosing to not include these, could there be a way to change the font or colour of a headline so readers could know where comments are welcome / permissible. The comments often really enhance or supplement t good articles. Just a thought. Thanks.


Russia is a country of liars, thugs, cons, cheaters & thieves... and Vlad The Executioner is the kingpin.


Is Torqurmadam a:
A. Trump troll
B. Putin troll
C. Both
D. No difference between Putin and Trump... except Trump is incompetence.


A President cannot project power overseas if he is weak at home.


It's a good thing we have Biden.


Excellent description of Trump who sold us out to Russia, China, and North Korea.


I wonder if Trump is still exchanging love letters with Kim Jong-un & passing top secret intelligence on to Putin? The traitor needs to face trial for treason.


Trump was more than weak at home. He was a cowardly traitor who let America's enemies (Russia, North Korea, Iran, Syria) threaten & attack the US. Disgraceful!


https://www.google.com/search?q=Torqurmadam&rlz=1C1SQJL_enUS914US914&oq=Torqurmadam&aqs=chrome..69i57&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8


Americans will not rally behind any projection of military power by Biden.  Those who would normally support it, view him as corrupt and illegitimate.  Those support him would not support it .


You seem to think Biden will be invading Crimea or something. All he will do is reestablish the Alliance that Bonespurs kicked to the curb.


No military power needed.  Putin and his minions are paper tigers.  Freeze their assets and it is game over for them.


Ha ha .  You might want to check out what is going on in Ukraine.


Other than the armistice signed between Ukraine and Russia?


Ha ha .  Munich


The ultimate sanction will be to prevent Russia from accessing global payment systems.


Nobody except a few brainwashed Trumpers considers Biden to be corrupt or illegitimate. The Trump chumps are traitors & most are  detached from reality. They should be rounded up, charged & imprisoned. While in prison, they should receive psychological counseling & be forcibly re-educated.


Washington Post continues its obsession with third-world Russia. Gotta keep the narrative going.


They could go on the ignore list except for all the nukes they have.


If it wasn't for Russia poisoning adversaries, putting bounties on American soldiers, interfering in our elections and hacking our infrastructure, we'd probably never hear about them.


Not obsessed. The article identifies several issues we have with the Russians.
The president also ordered an intelligence assessment on four nettlesome aspects of Russian behavior: the recent SolarWinds cyber breach, interference in the 2020 election, the use of chemical weapons against opposition leader Alexei Navalny and reports that Russia placed bounties on U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan.
Add to that Russian aggression in Ukraine, Russian support of Assad, and Russian support of Maduro in Venezuella.


They also attacked, invaded or are actively interfering in Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Finland, Sweden & they have interfered in multiple elections across Europe & North America.


The narrative of the third-world in the Capitol, you mean?


Russia is far from third world & they are currently America's greatest threat... traitor. Nice bit of propaganda there comrade.  Have another shot of vodka.


40% of the electorate view Biden as illegitimate.  80% of his supporters want nothing more than to diminish the American military and would rather be ruled by Maduro than a moderate Democrat.


Are you a Trump supporter?


40% are sheep that believe the lies they've been hit over the head with non-stop by Trump and right wing media.  No one wants to diminish the military or the police.  Anyone who thinks so has been brainwashed by the lies.


They are brainwashed like the Chinese people that they hate so much. Ironic isn't it?


100% of Biden's supporters are going to have buyer's remorse within 12 months.

Voters didn't vote for Biden, they were voting against Donald.


Whatever.  As long as the traitor Trump is gone.


Right. So we agree.


No.  We don't.  Of the two candidates, one was a successful politician with decades of experience in the senate, in foreign policy and in the White House.  The other is an incompetent moron who failed the American people and violated his oath of office.  I voted for Biden because he was the obvious smart choice.  Trump is a failure.


Trump is a liar, a racist, a bigot, a bully, a conman & a cheat. Great traits for an American president & the leader of the free world. His judgement day is coming.


Keep dreaming.


But they won't be vomiting for the rest of their life. By the way they have the remorse as a good cure, as the many Evangelists have taught us: cry and repent.....


The Evangelicals who voted for Trump are not really religious people. They are immoral like their repulsive leader.


another Qanon member


What a load of conspiracy crap. Where do you Trumpers come up with such nonsense? Do you inject disinfectant or sniff glue?


Russia should spend the money they use trying to bring down the US and improve their own country.


Dear Editorial Board,

Could you please open up the comments to the important stories. It wasn't WaPo customers that attempted a coup. We behave our selves.


Biden has a very weak hand.  Weakest since Carter.


BS...the hand is the weakest ever because of Trump. Putin's employee of the year four years running...


Trump was the best president Russia ever elected. Biden is in good shape. Let's hope he shows Putin & little rocket man who's boss.


I don't think so.  He's got to clean up the mess that Trump left behind; obviously, but he'll immediately restore faith and trust in our diplomatic relations with allies, and Putin knows his puppet has been tossed away like a Russian mail order bride.  Russia will be held accountable rather than allowed to interfere without threat of repercussions.


Torquemadam:
https://www.google.com/search?q=Torqurmadam&rlz=1C1SQJL_enUS914US914&oq=Torqurmadam&aqs=chrome..69i57&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8


Putin declared war on America. A cyber war that gutted the federal government infrastructure and nearly destroyed American democracy and the constitution. Biden has to fight fire with fire. They need a department of cyber warfare that will make Putin regret he ever laid eyes on Trump.


Very strong sanctions & counter-attacks are needed soon. Putin is preparing his next attack just as China is now using force in the South China Sea & sending nuclear armed planes over Taiwan.


AND in the short-term USA's "dancing eagle" or "uncle sam" or whatever cryptic like cyber warrior nick-named departments, need to give PUTIN an extremely good goooooosing on what USA can do in regard to politics.
It's pay back time baby!! (I hope.)


As long as were talking about China, why not Israel?  Show of hands who really don't think Israel has a whole bunch of nukes ready to go at a moments notice.


If Israel didn't have nukes & a strong military they would have been wiped off the map by Iran, Lebanon, Egypt or Syria long ago. Israel needs lots of nukes to help keep their loonie Arab neighbors in line.


Well, is that a bad thing?


Starting on the right foot - right on Putin's skinny throat.


Russia is our foreign enemy #1. They are responsible for continuous hostile attacks on our country, including the misinformation campaign that gave us trump. 

We need to hit them with maximum pressure. Expose all Putin's stolen billions. Expose the corruption among Putin and his oligarchs. How do you think Kushner is communicating with them? All through the Oligarchs via Israel.


You have bought the lib fake news.

NATO's military budget is 10x bigger than Russia's.

China will be the biggest economy in the world in less than a decade.

Tell me again who's the biggest threat?



