

649 books — 300 voters
Goodreads helps you keep track of books you want to read.
Start by marking “I Am Not Going to Get up Today!” as Want to Read:
Enlarge cover
Open Preview
See a Problem?
We’d love your help. Let us know what’s wrong with this preview of I Am Not Going to Get up Today! by Dr. Seuss.
Not the book you’re looking for?
Preview — I Am Not Going to Get up Today! by Dr. Seuss
I Am Not Going to Get up Today!
by
"A rhyming story that is full of laughs. 'The alarm can ring. The birds can peep....Today's the day I'm going to sleep,' says a lazy boy one morning, and despite a pail of icy water, television coverage, and the arrival of the Marines, he vows to stay in bed--and he does! The repetition of concepts and words will keep children turning the pages, as will the energetic drawi ...more
Hardcover, 48 pages
Published October 12th 1987 by Random House Books for Young Readers
(first published January 1st 1987)
Friend Reviews
To see what your friends thought of this book, please sign up.
Reader Q&A
To ask other readers questions about I Am Not Going to Get up Today!, please sign up.
Recent Questions
This question contains spoilers... (view spoiler)[craft activities for I'm not getting up today? (hide spoiler)]
Books for five-year-olds
More lists with this book...
Community Reviews
Showing 1-30
Average rating 4.03 ·
· 4,745 ratings · 233 reviews
Start your review of I Am Not Going to Get up Today!
Feb 11, 2017 Bionic Jean rated it liked it · review of another edition
Recommended to Bionic Jean by: Mohsin Maqbool
Theodor Seuss Geisel was an American writer, cartoonist and animator, best known to us for his children’s books. More than sixty of them were published under his pen name of “Dr. Seuss”, some of them the most popular children’s books of all time. They have sold over 600 million copies and been translated into more than 20 languages. “Dr. Seuss” was indeed a phenomenon.
Although he devoted most of his life to writing children’s books, “Dr. Seuss” had no children of his own, saying, “You have ‘em; ...more
Although he devoted most of his life to writing children’s books, “Dr. Seuss” had no children of his own, saying, “You have ‘em; ...more
This lesser known story has to be one of my favorite books by Dr. Seuss. I was thrilled when my son grabbed it from the shelf today. It is a silly story that my children actually quote snippets of from time to time. Who can resist a story about a boy who is adamant about sleeping in? I live vicariously through that kid every time I read this book. I suspect I always will.
I can very well imagine my kids reading this book to me and making it their favorites! Because it involves a boy who doesn't like to get up, no matter what!
As usual, Dr. Seuss books are a delight to read and re-read! ...more
As usual, Dr. Seuss books are a delight to read and re-read! ...more
Jan 24, 2017 Pooja Bhoi rated it it was amazing
Come what may!
I am not going to get up today!
I am not going to get up today!
Sep 25, 2018 C. rated it liked it
I created four fun reading themes for my book choices, without limitations and proudly mention borrowing “I Am Not Going To Get Up Today” from friends. Readers agree they did not know this 1987 story, about a boy bent on sleeping in. Ridiculous interruptions testing his mettle do not work. I support his resolve and strike a three-star balance: admonishing stupid interference no passerby would impose, nor give a flying fig about.... but smiling at cacaphonous, zany exaggeration demonstrating the ...more
Nov 28, 2016 Mohsin Maqbool rated it it was amazing
Once again a top-notch book by Dr. Seuss and this time with superb illustrations by James Stevenson.
It reminded me of my summer holidays in Calcutta when I used to sleep until 10 am or 10:30 am and it used to drive my eldest sibling mad. But the boy in "I am NOT Going to Get Up Today!" beat me at my game by totally refusing to get up.
His mother makes his favourite breakfast comprising of a large boiled egg and takes it to his room on a tray like hotel room service. However, it is no use.
His sib ...more
It reminded me of my summer holidays in Calcutta when I used to sleep until 10 am or 10:30 am and it used to drive my eldest sibling mad. But the boy in "I am NOT Going to Get Up Today!" beat me at my game by totally refusing to get up.
His mother makes his favourite breakfast comprising of a large boiled egg and takes it to his room on a tray like hotel room service. However, it is no use.
His sib ...more
May 02, 2019 Jovana Autumn rated it really liked it · review of another edition
Honestly, same.
10/10 Would stay in bed again.
10/10 Would stay in bed again.
Mar 21, 2016 Karen rated it really liked it
Just a cute, funny book. No deeper message, no made up Seuss-ian words. Just silly.
Feb 16, 2019 Florencia rated it liked it
Please let me be.
Please go away.
I am NOT going to get up today!
...
You can tickle my feet.
You can shake my bed.
You can put cold water on my head.
But you're wasting your time.
So go away!
I am NOT going to get up today!
This is still cute. As you get older, wanting to stay in bed every Monday morning turns into an act of hostile rebellion. And it doesn't rhyme.
In bed is where I'm going to stay.
And I don't care what the neighbors say!
I never liked them anyway.
Aw, you're already one of us, kid. ...more
Apr 22, 2020 Sosi Demirtshyan rated it really liked it · review of another edition
Arina likes Dr.Seuss, I like him more :)
Nov 11, 2018 Ilana rated it it was ok
Having fun revisiting Dr. Seuss books. I started out by just listening to the audiobook Green Eggs and Ham and Other Servings of Dr. Seuss which is an audio collection of nine stories narrated by Jason Alexander, Michael McKean and David Hyde Pearce. Most of them are fun enough to listen to without even the visual support of the wonderful illustrations, but I have to say I found this story disappointing. Funny enough because you’d think I would set this one to music and make it my personal anthe ...more
Aug 16, 2017 Meneniareads rated it liked it
Sep 14, 2017 Nathan Olson rated it it was amazing · review of another edition
Pretty much how I want to live my life everyday
5/5 snoozes 💤💤💤💤💤
5/5 snoozes 💤💤💤💤💤
Apr 09, 2018 Reese rated it liked it
i read this with my book buddy but the main point is everybody is trying too wake a boy up.
May 12, 2020 Andrea Cox rated it really liked it · review of another edition
Cute story! This would be fun to read on a pajama day or when your kid’s stuck in bed when they’re sick.
Sep 13, 2014 ZebraPrintRocks rated it it was ok
My daughter didn't enjoy the book at all - the illustrations on the other hand, did keep her turning the pages.
It's a relatable enough book, but I believe the execution left something to be desired. Yes, of course there were rhymes, and that was probably the only thing that kept my daughter engaged reading it.
I was actually surprised how well she sounded out the "places" in the book that were mentioned. But, for a more novice reader, I could see that really getting annoying...oh so many hard wor ...more
It's a relatable enough book, but I believe the execution left something to be desired. Yes, of course there were rhymes, and that was probably the only thing that kept my daughter engaged reading it.
I was actually surprised how well she sounded out the "places" in the book that were mentioned. But, for a more novice reader, I could see that really getting annoying...oh so many hard wor ...more
Jan 07, 2014 Vanessa Esparza rated it it was amazing
What I think about this book is that this man does not want to wake up.
This man does not want to wake up even when every body tried to wake him up.The first part that happened in the book is that the mans alarm rang and the man did not wake up.When the women came in too give the man breakfeast the women noticed that the man was not awake.When some kids game in the mans room they tried waking the man by making noises.A little boy put ice cubes in a bucket and the little boy splashed the bucket on ...more
This man does not want to wake up even when every body tried to wake him up.The first part that happened in the book is that the mans alarm rang and the man did not wake up.When the women came in too give the man breakfeast the women noticed that the man was not awake.When some kids game in the mans room they tried waking the man by making noises.A little boy put ice cubes in a bucket and the little boy splashed the bucket on ...more
Feb 14, 2011 Laura Mincey rated it really liked it
Shelves: humorous, rhyming-words
This is a hilarious story told by the classic author Dr. Suess about a little boy who refuses to get out of bed. The book goes on to tell the reasons why the boy would rather stay in bed then get up and eat his breakfast and go to school. It doesn't bother him that the children across the country are getting up and going to school--he's just not getting up for anything! This would be a great read when things in the school year are getting dreary and students are sleepy. After reading this book, ...more
Feb 22, 2015 Alicia Beaumier rated it it was ok
I am not a huge fan of this book in any shape or form. The book was shocking to me because it isn't like any of the other Dr. suess books. The little boy that refuses to get up is sort of rude about it. He refuses to get up but isn't really nice about it, no matter what his mom and sister did to get him up he still refused. I feel like this is such a negative message to portray to kids. That you can just stay in bed all day no matter what.
The illustrations in my opinion aren't very good either ...more
The illustrations in my opinion aren't very good either ...more
Oct 21, 2012 Amanda rated it it was amazing
This gets 5 stars on general principal. My mother got it for me as a present because the main character of this story and I have so much in common.
I was especially happy with the ending as (view spoiler)[the boy never does get up. I was worried that he'd spend the whole book explaining how he wasn't getting up for anything, just to rise at the end. Nope! He means it! And that is exactly how a book like this should end. (hide spoiler)] ...more
I was especially happy with the ending as (view spoiler)[the boy never does get up. I was worried that he'd spend the whole book explaining how he wasn't getting up for anything, just to rise at the end. Nope! He means it! And that is exactly how a book like this should end. (hide spoiler)] ...more
Feb 27, 2014 Alyn rated it really liked it
I didn't really like the rhyming in this book. They used some places that my 5 year old has never heard of and it didn't help that they were long names too so he had a hard time reading it. He still liked it though, maybe because he can relate so well to the boy in the story. ...more
Oct 20, 2014 Lucetta added it
I think it's a fun story to read on the weekend or any day really. Personally I think my favorite part of the book is when all the characters tried just about everything to wake up this little boy but it just doesn't seem to work. ...more
Feb 28, 2018 Jaimie rated it did not like it · review of another edition
This review has been hidden because it contains spoilers. To view it, click here.
Mar 08, 2020 Edward Sojuwa rated it really liked it
Dr Seuss has another Sleep Book to add to the one he wrote in the 40s, and once again he honors sleep as an important part of our existence. This time, though, the good Dr takes his concept to the next level. The boy in this book wants to sleep all day today, at the expense of the outside world, or so it will seem. Today he will sleep, but tomorrow is yet another day. Some of us in our world need a breather from reality, and some of us sleep in bed in certain areas where there truly is no other ...more
Apr 29, 2018 Rubi rated it really liked it
This book was SO written for someone like me. Another fun rhyme book by Dr. Seuss and I can totally relate but.....as a kids book....I'm not sure I like the message. I mean, don't get me wrong....it was a fun read and is totally me and I wish someone let me sleep all day but.....a kid gets away with acting out, disobeying his mom and skipping school or whatever else he was supposed to do with no consequence. Not sure I like that. If kids did what they want all the time, things would be a mess. G ...more
Jun 17, 2021 Skallagrimsen added it
Written but--disappointingly--not illustrated by the great Dr. Seuss, this one didn't stick to my memory like classics such as Green Eggs And Ham and There's A Wocket In My Pocket. Reading it now as a middle aged man with obstructive sleep apnea and a chronic shortage of energy, I Am Not Going to Get up Today! speaks to me more profoundly than it ever could have when I was young. ...more
122 users
Theodor Seuss Geisel was born 2 March 1904 in Springfield, MA. He graduated Dartmouth College in 1925, and proceeded on to Oxford University with the intent of acquiring a doctorate in literature. At Oxford he met Helen Palmer, who he wed in 1927. He returned from Europe in 1927, and began working for a magazine called Judge, the leading humor magazine in America at the time, submitting both carto ...more
Related Articles
Santa Claus has his work cut out for him this year. We asked on Facebook and Twitter: What fictional book thing do you want for Christmas? Here...
68 likes · 21 comments



