


This is why you end up with men troubles.





You see they are a problem, they don't make you happy, and then you up the ante by moving in with them.



Some people are jerks, it's up to you to take the time to figure that out, and stay away from them.



I'm sorry you are stuck.  The best thing to do is separate yourself emotionally and work to get out, even if you have to rent a room in someone else's house.


Thank you for your reply, much appreciated.


OK, the OPs husband fully supports and cares for her and the only problem is that he occasionally like to watch porn? This is just a completely ridiculous reason and the OP is big drama queen. If porn is such a deal breaker I hope OP clearly explained this to her then fiancée and he agreed to never watch porn again.



I also hope OPs husband made her sign pre nuptial agreement. Otherwise, if this is in the US, she would leave him broke after the divorce. i also don't understand the point of marrying for a man who doesn't plan to have children...


Re-read your first 4 paragraphs. You moved in with someone whom you say you didn't know. He always avoided any self-disclosure at all during the "getting to know you" phase lasting 9 months. So what did you get to know about him? Why would you move in with someone who a) displayed consistent and total indifference to who you were as a person, your interests, etc. , and b) consistently avoided providing any information or insights about himself?



OP, no one does that. You basically moved in with a stranger. How could you do that? Because he bought you gifts and dinners? A relationship has to be based on more than that. You're well into middle age; you should know better than this. Are you needy, or do you have abandonment issues or some other condition, that would cause you to bond and stay with someone who routinely gives you the brush-off by avoiding true intimacy? What's going on in your mind? 



Was it for the money? You moved in with a cold fish about whom you knew very little, to save on living expenses? Did you rent or own your own home? If you sold a home to move in with him, you have plenty of money with which to move out and get a rental at the very least. And what have you been doing with the money you've saved from rent or mortgage, after moving in with him? Surely you've been banking the savings. You have more financial resources than you're letting on, here, it would seem. 



Also notice throughout your narrative, how easily you fall for his manipulations. Every time you raise a serious concern, he suddenly changes his behavior, and you would have us believe, that this convinces you beyond a doubt that he has changed for the better. Every. time.  No matter how many times it proves to be an illusion, you seemingly allow yourself to believe his word. 



To an objective observer (i.e. -- us), his word is worthless. Face it, and accept it.



Also, I don't understand what you mean by-- you can't leave due to finances. You were living on your own just fine before, weren't you? Where is that money you were supporting yourself with? You say you're still working. What more do you need? You can move out to a studio, at the very least.  



It sounds like you don't want to move out, and are making silly excuses, like "it's been 4 years". That's not a reason to stay in a bad relationship. What is that even supposed to mean? It's 4 years of your life you've thrown away, and you say you want to throw away even more, because you've already thrown away 4 years? That makes no sense. Honestly, your reasons sound like cliches you've picked up off the internet: "I can't afford it" (despite being employed, and presumably having some kind of nest egg), and "I've already invested X number of years in this relationship".  These aren't real reasons. Your story doesn't hold water.



Sorry, OP, but there's too much of this story that doesn't make sense.


So he's always been into regular porn & recently been looking at porn of other men...eeek.  That alone is BAD, but then he doesn't treat you well anyway.



I'd want to get out of there ASAP.  Start saving up some money if you haven't already, get a little apt & be outta there!  Who needs him?!


I understand it hurts.   This is difficult.  We've been together 27 years and we are currently working out our problems.   We had difficulties getting into couples' counseling as well.    What worked was both of us went to individual counseling first and then later moved together to joint counseling.   It is a lot of work and for us its measured in years if not a decade now.   I'm not sure if you are willing and it would be quite normal to feel like that's just too far away given the current situation.     



I wish you best of luck.  I don't have the answers but I understand your sentiment.   Your partner sounds a lot like my wife... she shuts down whenever approached with an emotionally difficult topic (she is a product of an abusive father).   I found it necessary to go into individual counseling to help me talk to her.. learn to defuse and take on a more nurturing stance.   She went into individual counseling to help deal with her past.   Both were necessary even before we could start to come together...


Thank you usayit. I wish you best of luck too. I started phone counselling today to get some ground back under my feet. Just wish my partner would make use of it as well when he returns. So far he always refused. I'm always willing to hang in and work things out but that's not a one way street as certainly the trust is broken.


I responded to you with my views on it on another thread where you posted the exact same thing.  This thread seems more active though.  Still, take a look at your other one.  I think I gave good input.


Dear Don Draper,

many thanks, Just had a look at the other site...which one is yours, would you mind copy paste it to me please?


He sounds like a normal guy to me. Better than many who can't hold down a steady job. Good luck finding one that doesn't look at porn and is Don Juan in the romance department. 



The relationship consists of you yelling at him, getting him to apologize, and then demanding that he change. Inevitably he doesn't and then the cycle continues. I can't believe the porn thing is this big of an issue for someone in their 50's.  Aren't there bigger things in life to worry about?  It honestly sounds like you have some control issues and you are looking for something to get angry about.



He's looked at porn the whole 4 1/2 year relationship and you've continued with it. Now you want to end it due to this, seems like the "surprise" is coming from you.




What about watching porn together?  If you're not completely opposed to it, it could spice things up.  Its rare that women get turned on by it, but it's possible, speaking from experience.


Being gone for 10 days at a time, I would imagine some porn will be viewed.


For me, what got me over the hesitation was finding a therapist willing to correspond online passively through messages.   Its passive nature allowed me to think things through on my own pace and then respond.  Almost a "journal" like except I had someone to lead the way and add journal entries of her own.   We did this for over several years having phone sessions once a month (or as necessary).   



It doesn't work for everyone... but it fit my nature...  I'm in the computer profession and its also how we communicate at work daily.   I also kept a journal all throughout my life.   I found it easier to express myself in my journal thus that extended to my correspondence with my therapist.



Incidentally, the therapist that was most helpful was actually a LCSW (Licensed Clinical Social Worker).   So don't hesitate to "shop" around for a therapist and don't underestimate therapists that aren't Doctors.   I've been through several of therapists over the years for various challenges...   it can be challenging to find that one person that results in a good fit.   



Honestly, its going to be tough if your partner refuses to take the first step; acknowledge there is a problem in the relationship.







I also noticed a few posts about porn consumption.   I acknowledge I have a very different past from most here; it certainly frames my views.  Those views include that porn consumption isn't the problem that people make it out to be.... it is a personal reaction to what someone may find "disgusting".   It is important that it is your reality and not necessarily the reality of another.   With that said, just like any vice.... anything taking beyond moderation has the potential to displace the good things in life.  That's when it certainly becomes a problem.   I agree with the previous poster if sharing is an option.   Hiding a behavior could be a sign of embarrassment.... bringing out in the open (not literally and in moderation) can ease that stressor in the relationship.   It may not rise to the point of being detrimental to the relationship and certainly can avoid resentment that may result.



Yes... you should also start planning for the unfortunate event that you decide its time to leave.


When you enter into a relationship you should never expect a person to change to suit you.  Do you want someone to try and change you, to take away what you enjoy?  It's unfortunate if he is addicted to porn, but you knew he looked at it before moving in.  



Your options are to accept it or leave him.  He's unlikely to change and you shouldn't expect him to. 



Why can you no longer support yourself?  If you aren't already vaccinated, get vaccinated and look for an additional job if you want to leave and that's what it takes.  If you are staying because it's easier having someone help support you, then you'll have to suck up the porn and his looking at other women.


Especially if you don't even know the person you're moving in with, hardly. It's on you to scope the person out sufficiently before making such a big decision, to determine compatibility. Granted, sometimes there can be surprises no matter how conscientious one may have been prior to taking the plunge, but this OP admits to not knowing the person she was moving in with, due to his own chronic obstructionism. She also moved in with him after only being acquainted with him extremely superficially, for 9 months.  This really is setting oneself up for failure.


if you can afford counseling,  you can afford to move out.


Not sure that is fair.  With my medical I would pay like $20 a session.  There is online that costs like $60 a month for X sessions.


I only paid £5 for a trial of 2 weeks, which are the price of 5 liter milk.


Is looking at too much porn and not being affectionate enough considered "battering" these days?



Interesting.


And that is what you get.




That might be a good idea, but I don't think that'd work with the OP. She's upset when he looks at another woman.



I'd see an issue if he's refusing to have sex for weeks at a time and instead heading to the bathroom with his iPad on a regular basis. Other than that, a guy who's been looking at porn for the last 35+ years is not just going to stop doing it in his 50's unless he's undergone some kind of religious conversion.


Goodness, YES. 



OP: You have no right to tell a grown man what he can and cannot look at, just like he has no right to tell you what you can and cannot look at. That you would seek to do so, and to a man who is often away from you on the road, speaks of insecurity and a need to dominate. Your problems run much deeper than your relationship with him. You need to find out why you are so insecure that you would first stay with a man with whom you are clearly unhappy regardless, and second try to turn him into someone he is not just to make yourself feel better. The catch is that you will never feel better even if he stops looking at those magazines because you are too busy comparing yourself to and competing with other women in general, and you seek validation from someone else--him--when your own self-esteem should be enough.



