



So for killing a innocent old man the penalty is only closing the police official. Absolute injustice.




so terrible.




We must stop adult film through internet and we should punish those rapist in front of public through justice. Their punishment should be seen through all media. Then we can expect to stop the crime.




Government must have a sympathy heart..


They have a point and a very strong point. They must not be disturbed. Government duty is to protect the weak and not to evict them. Even if the land originally belongs to the government, it now belongs to  Khasi people due to their long time possession. Let it be theirs' land now by all means.




Government should take seriously to make motor ways road in four lanes all over the county.




Good job.




This makes me  ill, I hope they catch the scum that did this to the 8 yr old i hope they rot in the worse prison.




Barbarians!




Please make sure that they leave when the waters recede..




Sorry Sir, I am within the rest 10% who have hardly any faith in judiciary. General  Ershad put me on retirement from  cadered government service in December 1985 ( after just 9 years of service) 'without assigning any reason". My case is still pending in the High Court and there is no possibility that I would ever get justice. In my case, justice has been denied rather than delayed.


Only a public hearing about the level of public confidence in judiciary can validate or invalidate the claim of CJ. If court officials have the confidence of their performance and honesty, they can accept the challenge of standing face-to-face to people and see how much faith (90 %! ) they have in the courts.


Endless delay made in collusion with the lawyers is like denial to justice or sheer injustice .when we see criminal or civil cases ( tried in speedy tribunal or regular court) go pending for 10-15 years as well as a heap of 30 lac cases pending with the court and judges enjoying summer & winter vacation, we must call such claim' faith of 90%, 100 times fairer) a bogus .




Outcome of moral degradation.




we are very saddened to hear the unrepairable loss of our brothers and sisters in Indonesia.




In 50 years there will no indigenous people in Bangladesh.




Not having punish to rapist.




No one needs to carry 700,000 in cash these days.




On a slightly different note, These Aborigines are treated badly today by Australians. who came from Europe and taken over their land, Its a another Palestine Israel scenario.


These so-called "aboriginals" are the REAL Australians, not the white Australians who are in real sense "intruders" ! - Prof. M.  Hoque (USA).




nice job!


A few of people seen this idea .....


excellent initiative!!




Such a horrific news and nature of a human being. This kind of disgusting human being should be locked away in prison for good. I hope the elderly women will be looked after by others and God bless her.




 Wow! Looks like festival!




No wonder BNP leaders are having heart attack now.




 Wow! Is it imaginable? Perhaps the leader  deedwritters were bearer or carer of illegal wealth of somebody! They should be taken into remand for interrogation.




Honourable noted citizens, is there any way out to "act" now? Perhaps, it's too late to "act".




The National Committee to Protect Oil, Gas, Mineral Resources, Power and Ports may continue their movement but need not criticize various political parties who also want scrapping of  Rampal project. shah  abdul  hannan, writer and researcher.




It is now very much evident of climate change impact. Nobody deny the issue. Sometimes seasons are beginning earlier or later. Sometimes seasons are being longer than usual. Developed countries are responsible most for these changes. so they should repeatedly come forward to help the countries affected due to climate change.




Why penalize the drivers? Most are hardly class 8 passed, the passengers riding the vehicles are no doubt highly educated and holding high positions in administration. They are more knowledgeable about laws and regulations of the country. Such vehicles are officially allotted to them - they are fully responsible for the vehicles movement. Penalize them with moving without any vehicles for a week, if you cannot take any disciplinary action against them!! It is a shame that they run the administration and we blame students' bus running on wrong lane!!


Salute Cops..You are doing appreciable works.It should continue until stop offence.


It is very much appreciable initiative to fine someone doing offence while driving in wrong site. In true sense, it is really difficult to manage so much traffic in such a  crowdy city. To manage this situation, law enforcement agency should be more strict.


They should be fined 3 times than general people.


shame on these guys.




These are the real robber and White Colour Social Criminals of the country. These two brothers should be extradited at any cost finding out their whereabouts through the Interpol and other agencies of the Bangladesh government. Their all other moveable unmoveable properties should be confiscated immediately. Government and Bangladesh Bank should issue Red Alert globally to apprehend these two thieves and robbers criminal brothers. These type of White Colour Criminal who are acting and playing  dily dally in paying back loaned money should be heavily punished by the courts, if necessary death sentences should be awarded to them.

-  Kazi  Salim.






What an inspiring writeup !!! Read and enjoy thoroughly.




Preferably  Obaidul  Quader is more competent for party GS. No doubt Syed  Ashraf also good.


Really ?




Bangladesh has become a country of rape, loot, dacoity,undue coercion of money, hijacking and unlawful killing. The Law enforcing people should take care of these happening. The punishment of rape should be 20 years without parole to deter the rape spree.




He is nothing but a dog.




'''....and the country never interferes in other country's internal affairs.'' ...India is more than a neighbour.'' - No truer words have been spoken before.




As Dhaka is the one of the most polluted cities of the world, I propose to the authority to take some drastic measures: 1. All the industries should go away from the city immediately.
2. Brick Kilns and hazardous industries should go 100 miles away from the city immediately.
3. Private universities, private clinics, hospitals and medical colleges, unnecessary govt. offices should go away from the city immediately.




If this case is proved,in that case many more names may surface later ( they have taken shelters around present influential agencies).




I want to know what is the price of this project i.e. per  sqft. How the payment will be paid.




Honourable law minister has explained the situations in his own way not commensurate with the reality of the country.You please try to convince your people by ensuring humanity,people's right,rule of law,fair polls etc.,etc..




Does not look like a five century old tree.




This is very bloody culture of Students .
Who killed  Sudipto ???? and who are sufferers ??
Strong action and judgement should be taken against this unruly students.




At least life imprisonment for such murderers!




It's funny how a girl who has relationship with someone, falls into a trap, and then accuses of being raped.
When the girl has the audacity to visit him at 10.30 pm at night.


I agree with R R.


Really very sad news. How could someone joined as like as brutal job. Very very sad news for a nation. I think every learn from the matter & not engage any relationship even any friendship before married.....


How could someone be raped by being promised to get married? That surely means previous incidents weren't rapes but mutual expecting long term relationship,isn't it?


Good to see law enforcers catching the culprits so quickly. I hope the college student gets all the support she needs.


Laws adapted in our country shall change the social and cultural values of our country.We do not have a situation here that two young boy and girl shall live together as it happens in the west.But cases are going to be filed in huge number against husband and their family members by wife scare the boy to marry.A boy and girl when in love naturally sex shall come forward in the play.most amazing acts of our parliament frequent amendments in laws without examining the effects with taking time for it.I believe leaders should think on these social problems society facing.




Again we are now time to raise our voice in three only words "WE WANT JUSTICE".




The concerned countries and the UN must be more vigilant to avoid any such accidents in future. The UN is requested to work together with the concerned countries to help them keep their people in their own land providing with their basic needs.




Its news the film stile mader.




South Korea has coal power stations of 36,000 MW and its area is 100,000 sq km (Bangladesh 155,000 sq km). Why are we worrying about 1300 MW of  Rampal.


Because in South Korea coal based power plant was not installed near a  SUndarban like world heritage. Besides that, South Korea did not proceed against peoples expectations.




If the government fails to drug control in with justice is very good, if fails so how they will run the country with so many problems. Be honest, be active!  and  .




What about RAJUK ? It is a Mafia organisation. When will ACC go after them?




Total run scored by Bangladesh in 5 matches is 1392 and India scored 1444 in 6 matches. Average score of run per match for Bangladesh is 278.4 and for India is 240.7. So Bangladesh is going to win against India in this Quarter final of ICC2015.


The individual quality of players both in Bangladesh & India are better. India is our neighbourhood country & Player of Bangladesh know the ins and out of every player. In the world cup record both team win against each other equally. But there is no special all rounder in India like  Sakib of Bangladesh. Now the Bangladeshi team could continue match up to the end after going out 3 or 4 player which were seldom seen in the past.  Sakib is the tram card and if  Taskin &  Rubel takes the valuable wicket of India  Musfiq &  Mahmudullah will take Bangladesh in the semifinal with the help of  Sabbir,  Souymmo under the Brilliant captaincy of  Masrafee taking help from opening batsman  Tamim &  Imrul or  Mominul or Nasir.


Maybe we are not there in the flesh, but know that we, the whole of Bangladesh will be cheering our lungs out for you tomorrow. So Don't let the crowd get to you. The important point is, We love you, whether you win or lose. All we expect from you is good head spinning cricket.  something good will happen tomorrow.
#TeamTiger fighting!!!!!!


Very well, realistic summing up by  Shakib. I hope he will guide others in bringing out the best by understanding the game and the situation and so the variety in performance as is needed. NO short-cut and NO alternative to Training and keeping FIT! Good Luck, Tigers!


Best of luck Tigers. Yes, tigers are fearless, but be be more composed, levelheaded, calm,and be smart on the field. Win or loss you have nothing to lose. You have made us proud as a nation. Only sky is the limit. 165 million Bangladeshi among the billion or so around the world of cricket fans are with you.




alarming.




Very sad! How people can be so unnecessarily emotional!




Very Good Job, Real Example of food security.


Good job.let the food be distributed among them who are originally eligible for getting.


This looks to me a Bangladesh Air Force helicopter. Could the reporter be briefed to be more factual? Kudus to the Armed Forces for standing by the flood affected people of  Bandarban.




But,at the end we are not away from politics.




Oh great. Thus after our Prime Minister's recent visit to Singapore? Our foreign Ministry has really failed.




There is a decision passed by the High court Division and Appellate division upheld it that no police man in plain clothes shall arrest any person.Police who went to  Mouchak market why did not wear their uniform? It is quite possible that they arrested the business man in order to extort him or to kill him or to kidnap.Their activities which are unlawful should be enquired first and to bring them into book.



