



Though they are right in the question of population diversity but it will be threat for the foreign workers. To my mind they should do it step by step to protect the interest of foreign workers as well as their economy.




The barbarians are at it again! Even a 'criminal' has the right to be brought to justice alive.




After the  Awami League led government's 9/6 of the country's interest rate this news article is rendered redundant.




Is it coming too little too late?




This is sad to see. It was one of the most central locations for movie goers of all corners of Dhaka city to spend some quality time. The other branches won't have the same charm at all.




HOW MD/PK  Halder Disbursed public deposited money to false and fictitious companies of PK  Halder without approval of Board and BB. Some board members were also involved with PK  Halder in the scam. Identify those board members and interrogate them for the interest of inquiry.




Future leaders of the nation.




We mourn since he died before completion of his institutional education even at the age of 30!!




Sad and tragic, very tragic! People that can commit such grave atrocities on fellow humans are anything BUT human.




This govt. dare not ban  Jamat and  Shibir. What right do their goons have to disrupt an iftar party?




Salute to the brave young man who refused to give extortion to Bangladesh Criminals League. These BCL gang are now a terrorist gang all across Bangladesh and everyday they keep on killing fellow criminal of BCL or innocent students and general public. And yet they are called as Golden Boys and they are above law. But one day these criminals will pay for their crime.




Very Good.
The 41st BCS preliminary examination is going ahead on March 19 after the High Court rejected a writ petition filed by a BCS candidate seeking its deferral due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the recent surge in infections and fatalities.




 Nelima, a source of sprit for not only her community but for us all.
I wish for her dreams.




Here is what I found from internet search about Begum Para:

Muhammad Ali Bukhari from Toronto writes for DOT :
The  Bangla "Begum Para" originally derived from Urdu "Begumpura", literally "colony of wives" in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA), particularly in Mississauga, where thousands of South Asian women, mostly from Pakistan, live with their children while their husbands work in the Middle East. They immigrated to Canada as families, but men failing to find jobs in their professions, moved to the Middle East. Others, already living there, arranged an opportunity for the families under Canadian immigration system. However, they all struggle with the challenges of loneliness, single-parenting, long-distance marriage and the fear of  spousal betrayal, a foreign bureaucracy and a new culture. On this, "Begumpura: The Wives Colony", a film produced and directed by  Rashmi  Lamba that aired on local OMNI TV in September, 2010, and later covered in the Toronto Star on May 28, 2011 as 'Colony of wives' thrives in Mississauga by  Raveena  Aulakh. That eventually afterward recreated by a Bangladeshi journalist,  Shaugat Ali  Sagor, with injecting "wives from Bangladesh" in his article, which he admitted to this correspondent recently as news broke of money laundering from Bangladesh to Canada. Since then, presumably a reversal delusion propagated among  Bangladeshis for those who given a future for the families with their dirty money, otherwise no "Begum Para" exist here..




What an unfortunate news in our educational sector! We have been hearing this day after day but surprisingly with impunity. How can it be possible? The education Minister should be held responsible and be questioned.He is a disgrace for his position. Doesn't he feel ashamed when he draws his salary? Mr  Kalimullah is more a politician than a teacher but he is so easily visible in talk shows on our TV channel. He is setting a bad precedence in front of the nation. No work no pay . Then his hide and seek policy is so abhorrent. He visits his place of duty like a thief what is so disgusting for the honourable position of a VC. Isn't there any administration that kicks him out of our educational arena ?




The statements made by the Chinese Ambassador are significant. He summarised: "To put it in one sentence on the  Rohingya issue, China concerns, China contributes, and China acts." The three countries already have agreed that the full repatriation of the  Rohingyas is necessary for the stability of peace in this region. What is missing is any meaningful movement on the part of Myanmar, yet. It would be welcome if China, a very important neighbour of both Bangladesh and Myanmar, should act beyond asking Myanmar to take back the  Rohingyas. China has more means at its disposal to act without interfering into the sovereignty of Myanmar. For example, by using its important role in regional connectivity, economic, or military collaborations with Myanmar, to convince it to execute the repatriation of the  Rohingyas for the good of all concerned in the region.




In this case -time and place -is very important and it is not in the hand of any person.These two factors together make a very strong factor to alter anything the third party thinks.So probe inside to get the truth.God bless.




unless one knows of the remarks made, how can one make a judgment on the right or wrongness of an action on either side? Yet, unfortunately, the arrest itself partly explains the silence of the media on the content! We do however expect the media to find ways to inform its readers so that independent opinions may be nurtured. In this world, any extremism on either side is a self-defeating exercise, and we expect greater compassion from the people in authority and hope that the appeasers do no derail us from pursuing the long-term goal for a united nation where constructive criticisms are encouraged.


Not  crpc 500, it section 500 of penal code.


She should be prison for life or hanged. How can she dare to criticise PM. No one have any right to say any word against PM. She is above all criticism & questions. This is not west where you can critique your leader or even the Queen. This is DEMOCRATIC Bangladesh.




After  Rohingyas from Myanmar, the exodus of Muslins from India to Bangladesh has started. Probably, millions more would be compelled by Indian government to follow suit. So this is the friendly gesture of our big neighbour or is it?




Rest in peace our brave officers.




Well done BGB.




BGMEA Building: It'll be torn down in 3 months
Says housing minister.-Modern equipment and technologies will be used to demolish the structure so that no human casualty or environmental pollution occurs during the demolition. I wonder how RAJUK was not aware of development of technology at the time of laying out of foundation. Rajuk is a major player of urban development not aware of environmental factors but fortunately or unfortunately,  Rajuk is still continuing to ignores the environmental consideration. As a result, alarming environmental hazard is peeping.
Again, what is going to happen after demolition is yet known to citizen. Seeking Public opinion is better to avoid criticism and leading to higher acceptability.


A massive media publicity, both in print and TV channels, is being floating in the air for few years now.
in Bangladesh. It is, as if, the French 950 years old Christian Cathedral is being demolished in Bangladesh.
BGMEA, a business association, built this office building on a disputed land. At the of making of this office
building, neither RAJUK, EPB nor BGMEA knew about the real owner of the land. EPB allotted, RAJUK
passed building design and BGMEA constructed. Amazing, not a single authorities verified it. This means,
it was the negligence of all parties. Now, why only BGMEA should bear the blunt. Also, media's hypertension
on this small incident makes us a laughing stock.

Another concern, BGMEA has reportedly applied to HC for extension of further time. Meanwhile, a legal notice has been served to  Siddiqur Rahman, president of BGMEA, requesting him to withdraw a petition filed with the Supreme Court seeking a one-year time for demolishing the building. Is it not possible the SC quickly hear and
dismiss the BGMEA' new petition. I am ignorant about the law, so is my question. Please pardon, if I am wrong.




Rapists' paradise is Bangladesh.




What was Bangabandhu 's response to BHUTTO'S TELEGRAM? Would you please write the full report?
Was he ( Bangabandhu ) willing to work together with  Bhutto to build a "new system where there would be no discrimination among provinces as well as among citizens"? Writing full report you will help us to knowing the truth.




 Biju, another wonderful expression of the great and diverse cultural heritage of our land.
We are richer welcoming the new year in all its festive forms!


Looks very colourful, festive and fun. Celebrations are always positive.




Was the aircraft sitting IDLE since it had arrived on July 28th? This is not at all a commercially viable and sane decision for a new aircraft to SIT idle. This is why, along with incompetence and Corruption,  Biman never can see any profit made due to operation.
Hope the trend will be 'Business First' from now on as it has started to dream big.


As geographical location, Bangladesh has the vibrant opportunity to connect East West North and South very easily both her air and sea route connectivity. For these we need very very honest, sincere, dynamic work forces in these two sectors i.e. air services and shipping services.


Until ALL of  Biman staff (CEO, officers, pilots, arrogant imbecile cabin crew down to their cleaning ladies) are re-trained to respect passengers, they will not be able to earn the confidence and trust of the customer any business needs to survive. For now, it remains an airline that is not part of any international code-sharing or alliance arrangement; an airline that has so few an aircraft that slight delay in one flight has a high risk of impacting passengers with connecting flights. As such, it's still a carrier to be avoided by the high yield business class customer.




 Biman should be a business corporation, being Government owned leads to misuse and losses.




Covid-19 will have an adverse effect on airline companies. We don't know what air travel will look like during the new normal. Perhaps mothball the airline industry? Breaking news is that Warren Buffet the Sage of Omaha has just ditched all airline investment and this is foreboding?!




If the 'weapon' had been a toy gun, then why was the aircraft sitting idle for a week for repairs? The smokescreen is not cleared yet. There was definite lack of Professionalism.
Surprisingly, there is NO SOP followed in an international airport. This has to change for sure.




The culprits should not go unpunished. It appears that finally there is the "Political will" to do something about corruption in public enterprises. Why was there a lack of "Political will" before? How high were the illegal benefits reaching? The anti corruption watchdog should obtain wealth statements of all living  Biman employees and government ministers who ever served in any capacity.




Government must continue to keep river safe by demolishing all illegal structure from the river bank.




There are many offers like  abzal in Bangladesh.


Its a tip of iceberg. Imagine if he can loot in hundreds of crores then his senior and senior's senior can or looted thousands of crores . And  Abzal is definitely not a unique case nor a last case. Corrupt are fearless due to their backing and affiliation with people in power.


If he managed to take all that money from the public, then we are a rich lot!






I don't know major  Zia is involved or not. But he is the direct beneficiary of the death.  firm this point he can be suspected.


This lady has lost all her sense of sanity. When BNP was founded?




BD is ruled by fascist forces and people are accepting it out of fear. How long people will fear for their life I do not know but time will come when these people are put to justice and pay for their betrayal to this country.




I REQUEST TO THE DHAKA UNIVERSITY ATHORITIES TO ENSURE ACADEMIC ATMOSPHERE IN THE CAMPUS AND STOP ANARCHISM PREVAILING THESE DAYS.



