


Bangladesh will have won the world cup. The world cup. See the world cup. no. Not that world cup. That all you sleezeball with two cups and I girl ball cup world cup. But no Bangladesh will 'you've won the world cup. The world cup next year. 2-19. The year of your resolution how it coincides with your year of Chinese tiger isn't it a some miracle? Huh but why you ask. And that is perfectly valid. .Zzz...sleep.



Now you are getting into a deep state of trance. Entrance. As you exit your old shift of paradigm and embrace the new belief. Believe that we will win the world cup. How it feels. See how to feels. See I mean it's perfectly valid that.. 'not it valid that we will NOT won the world cup? because we never can. WE don't have the belive. See, we don't. So we won't. Won't we? Won?



no. Try as you may hard as you can See ... shun the thought that will make you believe that Bangladesh     Cannot will not win the world cup.



If they lose don't win or anything you will lose your blind eye spot. This in your very blind... that sport you believe it's not be possible. Est nest pas possible. In it. Tucked in the idea ... idea fixed that you will not that Bangladesh cannot... win the world cup.



Right? Yes...Bangladesh caaaaaaaaaaan't not nought out win the world cup. Right? Right... yes I mean how can Bangladesh Not win the world tournament cup even if they play with themselves.. But will they or won't? Wont you won't to have wanton thoughts that believe that Bangladesh will NEVER more win the dark world cup is a dark embedded deep DEEP secret you are hiding.



Forget this thread it won't happened. I will delete it the op.. I might cuss some egregious bangalw rodl for mods to dele it.. so that you only get a brief glimpse of that fact 



BANGLA WILL NOT [SIZE="1"]WIN[/SIZE] THE WORLD UP !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!



Cup your hands and yes and cover it because.. yes. is.. yes!!! Bangladesh didn't see the image flashing in your head of Mashra.. M*A*S*H as you laugher.. with medicine that lifting the trophy on day of your final.......


Thread locked. To be reopened after Mashrafe lifting the trophy.



-Admin.


I believe that too.


I believe! 2019 is our best chance. And we have a tradition of playing well in England.



Our team has to believe. They have to come out of thinking like if everybody performs...


Ingredients are there. Golden generation no doubt. But batting has to click for me. The wickets will be good for batting and BD batsmen do have a rep of collapsing, over complicating things, playing too many dots. Bowling for me is well rounded, got pacers, Control, cutter master, spinners led right.. 



2019 wc will be won by batting and score big runs. Not the other way around. I expect the average runs to be around 275!


2023. Best chance. Most of the players will be at peak. Some current seniors will be at the last stage of their careers and will want to end high.




I have a couple of lines that I use when I get scammers or cold callers calling me 



My best answer is "He just died....TODAY". That makes the colder caller so awkward they just hang up



When I get Microsoft call me: I tell them I use Apple products only



Accident insurance callers call: I ask them which accident are they referring too? The one where I spilt milk on the floor?



Share your lines or stories.


My reply to accident claims callers : Yes, I did have an accident. A girl touched me inappropriately on public transport.


I do not pick up. Set some one-touch text reply like "not interested" etc..


This.  Forget scammers, I never pick up calls where I don't recognize the number - if it's important they will leave a message and I can always return.  



I get almost daily calls from recruiters - Few of them got my number when i was looking for jobs 4 years ago - they still call today  and they know too much about me.. knows exactly what I want.. it's scary sometimes.  VM sounds like my old girlfriend or best buddy called or something.


There are some smart scammed out there. Calling with what appears as the Social Security phone number. 



They claim that your SS number is suspended because of some **** you did, and there is a warrant out for your arrest.



A quick look at the website of SS shows that your SS number can never ever be suspended.



$10 million is the amount people have been scammed out of by these *******s.


really? it's only smart when compared to those IRS calls.

.


The FTC calls it a 'scam within a scam'.



They haven't called ever since I hung up on them. 



******s.


Please share.


Sometimes I speak in Dhakiya.


Maybe apply this method and freak I'm out



 Cauxf D Dc.


Same here. Always let them go to voicemail when it's an unknown number.


Adam mama, I say, 

You call me, I kill you! Sheitan!!".




Apart from seniors nobody put in anything yet again while batting, Mithun/Saifuddin needs to be brought back. 



Opposing team had someone play a blinder of an innings , it can happen in ODIs



Fizz and Mashrafe underperformed I thought , even though mashrafe got some wickets he wasn't his best. The injuries could be taking it's toll



Rubel is still suspect while bowling at the end , today he didn't get exposed as much because game was over in Fizzs over but this issue needs to look at maybe have Shakib bowl the final overs with fizz, otherwise this will come back to haunt us again in future.


In New Zealand and England, Shakib bowling at the death overs is not good for us, he will go for plenty. We need a good pace attack at present.


Agreed, but despite all of that we still would have won the match had the cobra man not dropped Paul I believe.


Scoring 255 after a decent start if they maintained decent run scoring and wasted less dots 280 could have been easily archived. For me West Indies had the belief because of the low target on a good wicket to bat on. It made the job easier despite going down to the last over. Heck even 265-270 would've been a very good score in the end. 



BANGLADESH batsmen need to score big runs. Big totals are needed. All the depth and talent is of no use of you can't pile up big scores on good batting surfaces. 



In the end it was bit of an embarrassment to see how they finished off the innings. One nil up surly play with more freedom. Needed Sarkar and Liton in the end to do some big hitting. Miraz missed many balls same way again and again. Mash can't hold the bat unless it's practice match or if he is playing BPL. Couple of good hits towards the end would  got it to least 265-270!  But again 255 on a Good wicket is never enough especially of one batsman bats and scores a big ton.


Imrul Kayes is type that does well against certain lower ranked teams or certain teams with no real pace bowler. Against Oshanes bowling mr  Kayes looks at sea to say the least. His bat comes down from real high lift so snail pace and gets beaten easily by pace, he needs to sort that Bat lift up against genuine pace !


We still need our top order to fire. Tamim was good.. but other then that, the other 2 went missing. Even though we have a strong middle order, doing damage recovery everyday doesn't really work. Shakira and RIyad are aggressive players. But they can't play their game if we don't have a decent start. 



Also I am thinking 4 openers is one too many. I would drop Liton since Imrul only had 2 bad games and open him with Tamim. Soumya needs to move up as he is not a finisher by any means. There is a difference between an attacking opener and a pinch hitter. He is used to open boundaries and the luxury to play lofted shots without needing all of them to clear. We can put Mithun in between Shakib and Riyad. Bowling was fine I thought. Hope was just better. We had everyone else covered.


Drop Liton who played a important innings at the top on the tricky first match wicket but keep Sarkar because he scored ton at practice match?



Kayes looks at sea against pace. Might be two match bad batting. I don't count his heroics against Zimbabwe highly important. Take that series out and look at his average and SR since last WC. But if anyone needs to be dropped for next game is Sarkar of he isn't going to be bowled at all by the captain . I'd give Kayes another chance again for his heroics against the mighty Zimbabwe. In the long run BD captain needs to figure out how to use Sarkar well and use his bowling in the middle overs too then he can contribute better, he definitely is not a finisher.


I have not seen the match. But what I read in news and match thread, sounds like fielding was the main culprit today. You can't drop so many catches and still expect to win everyday.



I am assuming Imrul will be benched in Sylhet to accommodate Mithun (who is also a poor fielder By the way).


Either Liton and Kayes need to be dropped, and Sarkar pushed up the order.



I'd like to see Saifuddin played instead.


Riyad is not a slogger. SS is an attacking player, but never had any success as a slogger. Miraj is a prospect as a proper batsman, its a crime to expect him to be a slogger. Only Mashrafee was a slogger in his good days, not now anymore.





 Who is our slogger(s)?

Where is the 6th bowler in the team?

Who is our specialists death bowlers? We cannot trust our spinners, not Rubel or Mashrafee in death bowling. Then what is the management's plan during late overs?  If Rubel and/or mashrafee cannot do that, then why both of them in the team?



 



If someone like Litton is there, then why Mushfiq does the wicket keeping? How it helps the team?





Again, we are assigning our players with wrong roles.





Only Three (at best) out of Tamim/Litton/SS/Imrul should be there in the team, not all four.

If Riyad bats at #6, he must bowl regularly, and he must know how to slog regularly, otherwise he should not be in the team as #6.


your argument would have merit if riyad was always that type of player.  If anything riyad played an atypical innings.  Sending him to hold one end will bring out the test batsman riyad.  I think you are blaming the wrong person here.   He didn't really have much of a choice when he was sent after two quick wickets but half of the overs still to be bowled.


Kayes and Sarksr should not be in the team

Batsman did not capitalise on good starts

Bowling was okay but didn't apply pressure front the start

APU should never be in the team 

Team body language was bad during fielding.


What went wrong?

Tamim & Sakib came back and so did the minnow batting of SS,Liton and Imrul.



I am still not giving up on Imrul.



I think we should go with the same XI as this was our best possible XI and we did win 1st ODI comfortably, but I won't be surprised if there is a change or two.

Even though this makes the series more exciting but we lost the opportunity to test our bench strength.


Many good observations here. 



01. Both Soumya and Imrul are not middle and lower middle order batsmen. It is wrong to assign them into the role of finishers. They are not finishers and thus have failed miserably.



02. Mashrafe needs to take his batting a little seriously for team's sake. Once he was a very dependable guy for a few late blows, but now a days he can barely hold his bat.



03. We still do not have a genuine no 3. I prefer Soumya to be our no 2 and Liton to be our No 3.



04. Instead of playing four openers, play three (Tamim, Soumya, Liton), and have a genuine finisher - Saifuddin or someone else.



05. Team management has to clarify what their batting expectation is from Miraz. If he is not a finisher, he should be promoted up in the order with Riyad and Shakib be demoted down the order because they can hit.



06. Who should bowl the death overs must be predetermined. It is clear that Mash, Rubel, and Miraz are not suited for death over bowling.


Miraz opened in a match recently and he did well.


