What 's harder than building career momentum ? Jumping right to the top . Josh Duhamel prepares you for liftoff  IT 'S EASY TO DISCOUNT JOSH DUHAMEL . You see the tall , lean frame , the rugged mug , the superstar babe on his arm , and you think , Dude 's got it so easy . But toss back a brew with the guy and you 'll find that he 's no Hollywood himbo -- just a regular joe with a hardworking streak as wide as the Santa Monica freeway .  Remember Duhamel back in 2004 ? No ? Well , we 're willing to bet that your wife or girlfriend probably does : As the eponymous lust object in the beefcake chick flick Win a Date with Tad Hamilton ! Duhamel grinned his way into the spotlight , chopping wood sans shirt and outshining his romantic foil , Topher Grace -- the putative everyman .  But here 's the thing : Somehow , after the curtain dropped on Tad Hamilton , Duhamel , 34 , found a way to slough off that dimpled , one-dimensional exoskeleton and become that everyman himself , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if just to sneak a peek at his playbook . Take his new film , the savage thriller Turistas , which opens this month . A chick flick it 's not : Duhamel told us that a writer from Ells magazine walked out of a screening because it was too intense . ( In our book that makes any film a must-see . ) Next up ? A megabudget Transformers adaptation with producer Michael Bay . And then there 's that regular TV gig on the show Las Vegas in which Duhamel is the Cool Hand Luke of the crew amidst all the sex and sin .  Offscreen , he 's managed to land one of the hottest and coolest women out there -- Fergie from the Black Eyed Peas -- not just for a couple of dates , but a couple of years . Basically , Duhamel has assembled what everyone is striving for : career success , a great relationship , and a skull screwed on just tight enough to keep it all together . Almost .  " Well . I 'm constantly trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But I definitely have my moments . "  Sure , Duhamel makes it look easy . But he has a few tricks up his sleeve that have stoked his success , and his life -- tricks that any regular guy can adopt . Heck , maybe you can make it look even easier . FIND YOUR FUEL  Every man needs a motivation , and Duhamel was lucky to find his early , in school . And feel free to call it what it is : spite . " There were a couple of moments in high school and college that really fueled me to come out to L.A. and prove to people that I could do it , " he says . " It had to do with different coaches who did n't believe in me . I felt like I was n't getting the respect or the shot that I deserved , especially in college . I look back on it now and it 's something that I 'm happy did n't work out , because it really motivated me to prove myself . 