Introduction # This review addresses established and emerging glycan biomarkers for detection , prognosis and novel therapeutic strategies against gastric and colorectal carcinomas . These are among the most prevalent and deadliest gastrointestinal tract malignancies in western populations 1 , mostly due to late diagnosis , rapid metastatic spread and scarce efficient therapeutics 2-4 . In fact , current treatments rely essentially on surgery associated with ( neo ) adjuvant chemotherapy , which is highly toxic and provides only modest results for advanced stage patients 2,5-7 . Over the past ten years the introduction of targeted therapeutics and immunotherapy has allowed significant , but yet insufficient , improvements in disease management 8-10 . As the oncology field moves toward precision medicine and patient-tailored therapeutic solutions , it becomes imperative to accomplish a more integrative and in-depth overview of the molecular nature of tumors 11-13 . # Alterations in protein glycosylation are among the main molecular events accompanying oncogenic transformations in the gastric and colorectal tracts 14-16 . In fact , protein glycosylation is one of the most frequent , complex and plastic posttranslational modifications of membrane-bound and secreted proteins 17 . Glycans play a key role in protein @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several cell functions , such as cell adhesion , migration and signaling , as well as modulate immune recognition and host-pathogen interactions 16,18-20 . Protein glycosylation results from the highly coordinated action of nucleotide sugar transporters and sugar biosynthesis pathways , involving glycosyltransferases ( GTs ) and glycosidases in the endoplasmatic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus . As such , several factors may influence glycan biosynthesis , namely , the under or overexpression of glycosyltransferases , the impairment of glycosyltransferase chaperone function , altered glycosidase activity , changes in the tertiary conformation of a given peptide or growing glycan , and the availability of sugar nucleotide donors , cofactors and acceptor substrates 21,22 . The mislocalization of glycosyltranferases throughout the secreting organelles also contributes to significant alterations in cancer-associated protein glycosylation patterns 23-25 . Two main classes of glycans can be found at cell-surface glycoproteins : i ) O-glycans , being the most common O-glycan that is initiated in the Golgi by the attachment of a GalNAc residue to the hydroxyl groups of serine ( Ser ) or threonine ( Thr ) amino acids of a given polypeptide chain ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ O-glycosylation ) 26 ; and ii ) N-glycans , whose biosynthesis initiates in the endoplasmatic reticulum by the addition of an oligosaccharide chain to an asparagine ( Asn ) residue within consensus peptide sequences of Asn-X-Ser/Thr ( X denotes any amino acid except proline ) 27 . Less abundant forms of protein glycosylation include O-Fucosylation , O-GlucNAcylation , and O-Mannosylation 16 . Protein glycan chains are often branched or elongated and may present sialic acids , Lewis blood group related antigens or ABO(H) blood group determinants as terminal structures 28 . Other modifications may include phosphorylation , O-acetylation of sialic acids and O-sulfation of galactose and N-acetylglucosamine residues , thereby increasing the structural complexity of the glycophenotype 29 . In addition , protein glycosylation patterns do not follow a predefined template , as they are regulated by several factors at the cell and tissue levels , promptly responding to physiological and pathological changes 16 . # Given its key functional and biological role , alterations in protein glycosylation underlying oncogenic transformations decisively contribute to the development of more malignant characteristics , such as cell-cell adhesion impairment , enhanced migration and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been also implicated in the activation of intracellular oncogenic pathways and immune escape , thereby favoring cancer-tolerogenic immune responses 33,34 . Particularly , advanced stage tumors often overexpress or promote the de novo biosynthesis of immature and truncated O-glycans , such as the Tn , sialyl-Tn ( STn ) , T and sialyl-T ( ST ) antigens , due to a premature stop of the extension of O-glycosylation 35-37 . Oversialylation and fucosylation of glycan chains are also frequently observed in cancer , including terminal antigens like the sialyl-LeA ( SLeA ) and sialyl-LeX ( SLeX ) 38-40 . Contrasting with the tumor , these structures are often absent or just moderately expressed in the corresponding healthy tissues , holding potential for selective targeted therapeutics 38 . In addition , many of the proteins carrying cancer-associated glycans may also be shed into the bloodstream or other bodily fluids , facilitating non-invasive detection methods . # Despite the key role played by glycosylation , clinically approved and novel targeted therapeutic approaches for gastric and colorectal tumors have mostly resulted from intense genomic , transcriptomic and proteomic studies . Moreover , few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of gastric and colorectal tumors , mostly due to its intrinsic molecular complexity . This has significantly delayed the development and translation of glycan-based diagnostic and therapeutic solutions to clinical routine . Recently , the simplification and standardization of glycobiology-based methods have provided powerful analytical tools to improve our understanding of glycosylation alterations on specific cancer-associated proteins . This review summarizes recent insights from innovative research on the glycobiology of gastric and colorectal tumors . It emphasizes the O-glycome and glycoproteome , envisaging the identification of more specific cancer glycobiomakers and the development of innovative therapeutic strategies . Furthermore , it comprehensively discusses the implications of combining glycosylation , large scale genomics , transcriptomics and metabolomics toward true precision medicine settings . # Protein glycosylation in gastrointestinal cancer : molecular mechanisms underlying the aberrant glycan biosynthesis # Perhaps the most studied cancer-associated glycoepitopes in gastric and colorectal cancers derive from a premature stop in the elongation of protein O-GalNAc glycosylation 16,37,41 . These antigens have been classically termed as simple mucin-type O-glycans , reflecting the abundance of this type of glycosylation in mucins . Nevertheless , these types of glycans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protein expressing O-glycosylation sites . O-GalNAc glycan biosynthesis can be initiated by up to 20 polypeptide GalNAc transferases ( GalNAc-Ts ) , which are responsible for catalyzing the transfer of a N-acetylgalactosamine residue from UDP-GalNAc to the hydroxyl group of Ser or Thr , originating the Tn antigen ( Fig. 1 ) 42-44 . The different GalNAcTs present a cell and tissue-specific expression 45 , showing distinct and partially overlapping peptide substrate specificities that are crucial for O-glycosites definition 46 . There have been reports of an increased density of O-glycans in gastric and colon tumors , resulting from an increased GalNAc-Ts activity in tumor cells compared to normal cells 20,47 . In most normal gastrointestinal cells , the Tn antigen is further elongated by core 1 **25;17515;TOOLONG ( C1GalT ) . This reaction originates the core 1 or Thomsen-Friedenreich ( T ) -antigen ( Gal1-3GalNAc-Ser/Thr ) , in a process dependent on the functional chaperone COSMC ( Fig. 1 ) 48 . The initial GalNAc may be extended and originate the core 3 , catalyzed by **36;17542;TOOLONG 6 ( 3Gn-T6 ) .