The papers that comprise this symposium are adapted from remarks delivered on 31 May 2002 in Washington , D.C. , at the NAS 's tenth national conference titled " Higher Education and Democracy in Peace and War . " They reflect the intention of the conference organizers to approach the role of patriotism in higher education from differing perspectives . Introduction Gertrude Himmelfarb  " Is higher education compatible with patriotism ? " That question suggests a prior one : Is higher education , as we now know it , compatible with education-education , that is , as we once knew it , liberal education ?  About higher education as we now know it , I think the members of the National Association of Scholars have no illusions . Much has changed since 9/11 , for the good . But higher education , I regret to say , is not among them . It is no accident , as Marxists used to say , that some of our most eminent professors in our most prestigious institutions of higher education should have immediately , instinctively , responded to the Twin Towers attack by blaming and disparaging America .  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May 2002 at a university in this city , the capital of our nation-a university bearing the proud name of American University , should have counseled the graduating class : " Find out who you are , what you think , " Goldie Hawn told them . " Learn to listen to the sounds of your own heart .. Now is the time for you to go to the College of You " -by which she meant , the College of Me . I do n't know which is more absurd-that Goldie Hawn should have been chosen as the commencement speaker ( and , I presume the recipient of an honorary degree ) , or that she should have taken this occasion , and this time , to deliver that narcissistic message .  It was in 1965 that Lionel Trilling coined the phrase " adversary culture " to describe the attitude of the early modernist writers and artists toward the dominant bourgeois culture of their time . By the 1960s , that adversarial attitude had been democratized , so to speak , adopted by a large body of people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) who had no pretensions as writers or artists , but who assumed the attitudes associated with those callings . Since then , modernism has been succeeded by post-modernism , and the adversarial culture has become ever more pervasive and aggressive . The postmodernists have an " adversarial intention , " as Trilling would have said , not only toward bourgeois culture , but also toward those very ideas of mind and art , of truth and beauty , which had inspired the modernists and had been the warrant for their animus against the bourgeoisie .  Mind and art , truth and beauty-have they ever been entirely at home with such bourgeois values ( once classical " virtues , " perhaps , but now bourgeois " values " ) as family , community , country ? Does n't education , even higher education at its best-liberal education at its best-always tend to have a corrosive effect upon traditional beliefs and practices , loyalties and affections ? Are n't the Socrateses of all times always , in a sense , corrupting the youth ?  These are the perennial anxieties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only brought them to the fore , made them more urgent than ever . Terror and war concentrate the mind wonderfully . Now is a good time to address these most elemental and critical issues . The Perennial Trashing of Bourgeois Democracy Walter Berns  I recall a faculty party at Cornell , the day after the annual Fourth of July celebration at the University football stadium . A wife of an economics professor , when asked if she had enjoyed the fireworks , replied , " Yes , but I could have done without all the flag-waving . " This reminded me of that familiar old song-familiar in some circles , at least- " If you do n't like my peaches , why do you shake my tree ? "  As in Ithaca , New York , so , apparently , in Ann Arbor , the home of the University of Michigan . The following statement comes from an article by a professor of English titled , " Dissing the Middle Class " : PREFORMATTED TABLE  This phenomenon is not peculiar to America , or to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Orwell remarked much the same thing in England . " It is a strange fact , " he said , " but it is unquestionably true , that almost any English intellectual would feel more ashamed of standing to attention during God save the King " than of stealing from a poor box . " 2 What accounts for this ?  Orwell attributed it to what he said was the fact that English intellectuals were ashamed of their own nationality . As to that , he would of course know better than I , but it seems to me that shame alone does not explain it , certainly not shame as Hobbes defined it-as grief caused by " the discovery of some defect of ability . " It was surely not because they grieved for England that four of them-Guy Burgess , Donald MacLean , Kim Philby , and Anthony Blunt-spied for the Soviet Union . Orwell was probably closer to the truth when he said English intellectuals were Europeanized , taking " their cookery from Paris and their opinions from Moscow . " Of course , a Paris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why Moscow 's Marxism rather than Britain 's liberal democracy ? The answer has something to do with the fact that , especially after Adam Smith , liberal democracy became bourgeois democracy .  Just as it was in England that the idea of liberal democracy was born-I refer , of course , to Thomas Hobbes and John Locke-so it was in England that opposition to , or dissatisfaction with , liberal democracy was first manifested . By this , I do not mean the champions of the old or traditional political idea-monarchy or divine right ; Locke presumed to have disposed of that in the first of his Two Treatises of Government . I have in mind certain poets who defended what they called culture , and foresaw that John Locke 's , and after him , Adam Smith 's principles would lead to a commercial society , a society with no secure place for culture as they defined it , in a word , a " bourgeois " society .