ADVANCED ENERGY SYSTEMS  Commercial power plants are in service using vapor-dominated and liquid-dominated geothermal power . Meanwhile , research and development continues on hot dry rock resources .  GEOTHERMAL ENERGY IS a naturally occurring renewable source of thermal energy . Thermal energy within the earth approaches the surface in many different geologic formations : volcanic eruptions , geysers , fumaroles , and mud pots .  Generating electric power from geothermal resources began in earnest in 1960 and is ongoing . Today , the capacity of geothermal power plants worldwide exceeds 6000 megawatts . ( The table on page 78 lists the installed capacity by country . )  The thermal energy in geothermal fluids is absorbed from the surrounding geologic formations over a period of time . When the rate of energy extraction to generate electric power exceeds the natural recharge rate , energy production from the reservoir declines .  The rate of decline is related to the energy extraction rate and the natural recharge rate . Many factors influence the natural recharge rate , including the amount of fluid in the reservoir , the inflow of cold water from external sources , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Like other power plants , the design of a geothermal power plant is based on a specific set of flow , pressure , and temperature conditions . Although resource decline begins as soon as production starts , the power plant is initially insulated from the decline by resource temperatures and pressures that start out above the conditions used for the power plant design . As time and production continue , the resource flow conditions fall to , and then fall below the power plant design conditions .  The decline of resource flow conditions can usually be delayed by adding production wells and reworking existing wells . These techniques , however , provide decreasing benefit as the resource matures . Many geothermal power plants that have been in operation for a number of years are operating at reduced capacity because the resource has matured and is declining .  For reasons ranging from contract issues to tradition , the potential variations in the geothermal energy sources were not included in the original design of these power plants . By necessity , existing plants are being modified to respond to changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be described as hydrothermal , hot dry rock , or geopressured . Hydrothermal resources contain hot water , steam , or a mixture of water and steam . Hot dry rock resources , as the name implies , do not have fluids that can transport the energy away from the high-temperature subsurface rock . Geopressured resources contain hot fluids under higher-than-normal pressures .  Although research and development projects continue to look for ways to efficiently extract and use the energy contained in hot dry rock and geopressured resources , virtually all current geothermal power plants operate on hydrothermal resources .  The characteristics of the hydrothermal resource determine the power cycle of the geothermal power plant . A resource that produces dry steam uses a direct steam cycle . A power plant for a liquid-dominated resource with a temperature above 330 degrees F typically uses a flash steam cycle . For liquid-dominated resources with temperatures below 330 degrees F , a binary cycle is the best choice for power generation . Power plants on liquid-dominated resources often benefit from combined cycles , using both flash and binary energy-conversion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for existing geothermal power plants are continuously improved to suit the changing resource conditions . The improvements described here for the different power cycles reflect probable design trends for the next generation of geothermal power plants . DIRECT STEAM CYCLE  Figure 1 shows a direct steam cycle . The cycle diagram shows the major components that are used to generate electric power and are influenced by changing resource conditions . Impacts on the turbine , condenser , gas-removal system , and cooling tower will be described herein , along with modifications that respond to the changing resource conditions .  The direct steam cycle is typical of power plants at the Geysers in northern California , the largest geothermal field in the world . The primary operator of the Geysers is Pacific Gas and Electric ; other participating utilities include Sacramento Municipal Utility District , Northern California Power Agency , Central California Power Agency , and independent power plants run by Santa Fe Geothermal and Calpine . Steam from geothermal production wells is delivered to the power plants through steam-gathering pipelines .