



All the Prime Ministers men is not propaganda. It's a documentary about what she is doing to the country. It's a shame she is colluding with murderers and then accusing her rival party of doing such things.




what type 0f islamist is anas madani who take brivein the name of islame they are playing different role almighty will never spare fhem


What do you mean, Sir, when you write, “The Islamist group got close to the AL and the government, getting benefits, including land, according to a number of its leaders”? Government bribed the Islamists? Or, Islamists bribed the government?
Anyway, whoever gives or takes bribe is a criminal and surely he will go to hell. Make no mistake, on this point. What the Prime Minister of Bangladesh says about it?


The government should cancel all the facilities provided to Qwamis! Qwamis want to struggle for their demands! Any government other than Awami league may fullfil their want in the future!


 , be carefule .the 


I am astonished and baffled!!




This corona virus pandemic has impacted badly on every section of the society all over the world. Similarly farmers also have been. But this section is being affected more due to their marginalised characteristics. This section of people have to utilise their saving faster for their livelihood. And relatively low saving has been decayed fatly. That’s why reports are available there that farmers are selling their valuables including lands for their livelihood. To prevent creation of this unwanted situation, we need to take some measures which would help make farmers high rate saving. Farmers community actually want land reformation which would be farmers welfare oriented side by side subsidised input price, storage facility while boom production happens and farmers welfare oriented import policy. we hope that Government mechanism would ensure these things.




Humanity wins. Bangladesh and Maynmar can forge greater economic growth if people in the region are respected and valued. No one is persecuted. The area needs to break the cycle of discrimination and hate. Both Bangladesh and Maynmar have Westphalian. Bangladesh and Myanmar are not the yoke of any overload, any imperial power.


Another joke the world is watching




Our very first cases were those who had arrived from Italy. They were three in total. Easily traceable and could have been isolated. Some countries have really Contained the deadly virus religiously (or militarily) observing the do's and don'ts of WHO and CDC. New Zealand is the only country officially announced it is free fron Covid 19. We should not call any 'allowed' or sanctioned absence as 'Holiday'. This may be called as "Save yourself and family, Stay HOME period until advised", to make it work and reap results. Yes, indeed. it is a WAR to synergistically fight and Win!


The measures to contain the infection i's not fruitful. We have to think another way to overcome this situation




Only such report will not bring any change




To remove dirt from the earth,
The earth became full of dirt.





Verey good commitment.


Very concern to the public health.


Very good decision .


When officials get exporting ideas, only then they get concern about public health!!!




Trump is no less than a white supremacist when it comes to black or other races, and that tells everthing about his behavior, talk and dealing of situations that involve killing and benefits of other races.




VCS OF DIFFERENT PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES MUST BE REMOVED FROM THEIR POSITIONS FOR INVOLVING FINANCIAL IRREGULRITIES IN THE VARSITY CAMPUSES THROUGHOUT BANGLADESH.HONEST VCS TO BE APPOINTED IN PLACE OF CORRUPTED ONES IMMEDIATELY OTHERWISE ACADEMIC ATMOSPHER OF THE STUDENTS WILL BE HAMPERED.




Time to get  in their  .




Read those Guidelines to the Medical Syndicate.




This is a good move to ensure patient privacy and hospital hygiene.




Let us hope for the best protection of traveller/passenger against COVID-19 attack..




So per my knowledge goes , she is not fitest in this post.I recommend her to be replacement as early as possible.




Fake news




Thanks to the honarable Prime Minister to realize the real situation of the country and giving direction appropriately at appropriate levels.

The nation also thanks to the honourable PM for her understanding and disappointment with the indecision of the Garments Owners for which innocent garments workers are being suffered for financially that also severely impacts on the health in the perspective of spreading COVID 19.

Mayen Uddin Tazim
National Consultant
Asian Development Bank


Partha  , the local administrations have not been instructed so far to impose the lockdown to slow down the spread of Covid-19.


Most of the places in Dhaka in between two houses there are less than a meter distance between window of one building to another one. How about huge urban slums? When all the corrupted officials of city corporations were approving those designs where was PM then? It is easy to give order and have police in action batoning public but the problem is deep rooted. Your corruption will hurt you!!




I am not sure how the people's court will function on the ground. The honourable court can give guidance on this matter.To reduce corruption perpetuated by our public servants ie, our masters by making it a criminal offence by changing the law which will ensure prosecution and liable to punishment of the bribe taker not the bribe giver.. This is because the bribe taker has enormous power and life long security.of job. Off course the politicians has to agree.




First of all do an audit on the personal fortunes of all Rajuk officials. Then publicly whip the skins off of all those who are found to have amassed illegal wealth. This is the only way to clean out Rajuk and bring order to our mismanaged building regulator.


Demolish unsafe building. Regeneration and build better.




Dr Bijon Kumar Sil, head of the microbiology department at  , had previously told The Daily Star that when people were recovering from Covid-19, their test results may come out positive because the PCR machine detects the dead viral RNA in their sample.




Yes, we want to keep good relationships with all countries but at the same time we also need to be visionary to see which way the future is heading.




Wishing for early recovery. Get well soon, Mr. Quader.




The Daily Star is covering the news with great enthuasiasm. May be it is a slight knock to the alliance but does not seem to have much impact. However it is absolutely the discretion of the learned editor and its editorial principles and that is honoured too.




Whole Awmileague Organizations are involving in serous gruesome Crime's & earned Billion's of money as well as wealth which touchés the highest peak of Mount Everest's,! If an ordinary Juboleague or Sechhasabek league leader's & workers have earned a Billion's money & wealth then the most vital questions arises how much uncountable Wealth & money been accumulates by Ministers & MPs ! So start crackdown against Minister's & MP's instantly in order to get Maximum result's !


If people knew who have not made himself/herself rich by doing politics in Bangladesh since 1972!
If someone could make a list of the children of politicians’ who live in Western countries and show how much wealth they have and how they life!




May Allah Bless his soul in peace! I remember you Rahat  as a regular morning walker and for sharing throughts. It's a national loss indeed.




Initiating ticketing system, salaried driver & supervisor, a standard waiting time for every bus at ticket counter and bringing back the double decker bases that allocated only for govt. service holders, will dramatically improve the mass transport system of Dhaka city.




Really sad




Thanks.




It seems to me sometime interviewee forgets their exact role to play for taking an interview.




They are above law as they are associated with ruling party.


How this Saifur Rahman and his gang have been controlling the hostel for years? Is it a college hostel or a criminals’ den? What the college authority was doing?


BCL 


I hope Prime Ministers press secretary can say somthing.




it's more than rape or consensual sexual in timidity or more bit to be fornication... Injuries on rectum prevailing the untold history of distortion.... Moreover it's maybe happening of exposure of the lack of unawareness of sexual inter course... Especially on tender age.. nothing more... as I think...


Fardin Iftekhar Dihan is an 18-year-old person who has recently passed his A-level examinations. According to her passport, the victim was born on October 9, 2003.. Based on her passport she is 17 year and three months and will sit for the O level fimal exams in the next four months. The school should also have her date of birth. O level is equal to SSC and A level is equal to HSC. Usally, a student passes the SSC or O level at the age of 15 to 17 years and the HSC or O level between 17 to 19 years. The victim has died, the parents are in agony and let us not further aggravate their miseries. We have our own daughters. I request that we should not debate the vistim's age, Thanks




No one will even know about it.




Negative and negativity in our thinking and believes are strong. If a female magistrate records verbal statments and a female physician examines the victims secret sextual parts, only then the victims may feel a bit relief. A female magistrate's recording of statements from a rape victim may bring a small relief, but physical examining by a male physician will give her same pain and embarassments. Although, two finger exams of British rulers has been recently abolished by HC, the availibility of female examiners from both sides may not be possible in some places. Besides, dominence of police force and influencial rapist or a principal of  like Shiraz, the
innocent poor will never get justice. This is the negetivity in our minds.




Good action




I Think,  victim by bad politics,it should not be,its very harmfull for bangladesh.future generation will lost their research interest,though we are very very poor in research sector


This test should be approved both by BSMMU and WHO. It detects antibodies 30 days after infection with Corona19 virus.


Hats off to Prof Bijon Kumar Sil, the brain behinf the Rapid Dot Blot' kit. It's unforunate that the concerned authority could not yet appreciate such a great and timely invention with required eagerness.


I Think,  victim by bad politics,it should not be,its very harmfull for bangladesh.future generation will lost their research interest,though we are very very poor in research sector




But beasts are not Rapists.


To start with, Death Sentence must be commuted immediately after the crime is proven. This is the short term solution. Long term has to be researched more with time and experts at disposal. The PM is Right.




The amendment bill has not become law yet. Until it becomes the law, rapists are still liable to the maximum punishment of life imprisonment. Also, the death penalty has been reserved as the maximum punishment, and not the mandatory punishment.

The title of this article is regrettably inaccurate.




A news that the WWIBP will be able to consruct 10 more bridges out of the saved fund(Tk286  ) from the exising bridge-building projects is unique & unbelievable.Where we habitually ask for more time & fund on various pretexts for projects under implementation, this is a singular instance of achievement in our history of any project/s' implemention.The Minister concerned looks naturally overjoyed with this performance. Should it not be verified first & then those rare builders/engineers be rewarded if really true!






There has been a number of fire incidents recently in Bangladesh. If this is sabotage, then it is tantamount to a terrorist act. People’s livelihood are lost. People’s treasured moments are lost. Lives will be lost. The fires causes fear and unnecessary suffering to anyone caught in them.




We are satellite launchers, why we can not manage and regulate this raw hide? This is not rocket science The "SYNDICATE" must be broken and should face the law. Our finished leather product industry is under serious threat.




Remdesivir will certainly help Covid patients. Thanks to Eskayef. Hope that it will be available in local market ASAP. It could lower down Corona mortality in Bangladesh.


Many platitudes goes to Eskayef for developing antiviral generic drug Remdesivir to help the terminal ill Covid-19 patients.




A tearful, heroic welcome back home to Rayhan Kabir! Bangladesh needs you most. This country perhaps needs you more than your family does. Hon'ble PM, may I kindly request your highness to nurture this invaluable Boy, hardly seen in our concurrent time. Bangladesh's head is held high once again. We love you, Rayhan...our Son!




