


More than a body
How would you define beauty and what it’s worth to you? Beauty is subjective after all. And today’s mono-dimensional perception of being beautiful means having a slim physique with perfect hair and skin. What would you give to fit into this ideal image of beauty?
If you are constantly thinking about how your body looks, you’re dragging yourself into the trap of self-objectification, and looking beyond it is difficult in our body and physical appearance-obsessed culture.
It’s time we learn to make the paradigm shift and accept that we are more than just a body, and it’s more important to have a good body than a “good-looking” body.
Humaira Khan, Owner and Designer of Anokhi, and General Member of the Fashion Design Council of Bangladesh, talks about her plans with the body positive movement that she is about to venture on this year.
In Bangladeshi culture, feeding children is the most important thing for the parents. Ever since I was a teenager, we were not conscious about what we eat or put in our body. We were never asked not to have chocolates, ice-cream, or overeat. As a result, I was overweight in my teens. That’s when the bullying started in a big manner. In later years, I came across a doctor who suggested that I reduce my weight and eat more fibre; which is why I lost the weight. But it wasn’t because I was conscious. Soon I became a teenage mother, but I still managed to maintain a steady weight. And even though I may have lost the weight, the cravings or my sweet tooth hadn’t disappeared.
I may look quite okay for my age, but when I look in the mirror, I see the same old person, who’s fat, short, stout and dark. And I cannot love myself. I get complimented on my looks, but nothing pleases me. So it’s a body-confidence that I lack, more than anything else.
I have always encouraged my daughter to eat healthy. But as is with most Bengali families, her father would feed her to his heart’s content out of affection. She too became overweight. In the course of time, I started to look thinner than my daughter, and people started making comments on that. “Your daughter didn’t turn out to look like you,” is something I’d hear on a regular basis, and it hurt me more than it hurt her.
My daughter has a beautiful personality, but it is overshadowed by her weight. It really goes to show that there’s something fundamentally wrong with us, and that was my awakening.
It’s not being addressed at all. It is something a teenager has to face every day. The harassment, the bullying, peer pressure and body-shaming are things that are very prevalent not just in schools but even at homes. Children and teenagers are made to feel small and insignificant. It doesn’t matter if they have a great personality or acing exams. It all comes down to how they look. The vicious cycle of disapproval from everyone is scary. We need to teach our children to be okay with their body first. We need to teach them that it’s okay to chose and work on their own palate by themselves, without force feeding or stopping them from consuming sweets.
There are three things to address here. Healthy living style, healthy eating style and change the body image that’s considered “ideal” not just in Bangladesh but worldwide. We need to stop being so image-conscious. Children should be taught to love themselves for who they are, and not be dependent on other people’s approval.
I would say obsession is fine, but not to the extent where you become destructive to yourself or your surroundings. Anything you do should be in moderation, and it should have a purpose. Looking good is good. But we just have to keep in mind that our energy can also be used to achieve bigger things. To be completely honest with you, I am a little upset with the self-obsession and narcissistic characteristics of the new generation. It’s like everyone is trying to gain recognition and validation with their looks, and not by their work. The feeling of happiness is quite deep-rooted, and it should come from within. You shouldn’t have to seek validation from others.
It has to start with our children, and in our homes. And then in schools. Instead of telling our kids what to do and what not to do, we should teach them how to be happy and comfortable in their own skin and bodyweight. People who are constantly being rejected by the society and labeled as “overweight”, “dark-skinned”, “too short”, or “too fat”, tend to nurture a lot of hatred towards others. Sometimes, they end up being bullies or even self-destructive.
It’s time to teach our children that they don’t need to look good to have a voice. They can be whoever they want and still be heard and respected.
Recently, we changed our brand from Anokhi to Anikini. Anokhi always had this very la-di-da and red-carpet-esque appeal. Perhaps that’s what I was aiming for with my appearance and red lipstick, rather than my success itself. But it did bring me success and it was probably because I put my heart into my work. I think it was more about proving myself to me. And what I have learnt now is that it’s okay to be myself, instead of trying to look like a diva at all times.
It’s important to let women know that they will be accepted just the way they are. If they want to spend hours to look perfect, that’s fine. But let them decide and choose what they want to do, how they want to look, or what they want to wear.
At Anikini, we are going to keep all sizes on the racks. We are going to pick our models that are more real. For the last few years, I have been scouting for plus size models. The idealized body image leads to models starving themselves to the point where they develop anorexia. I understand, the clothes drape well, it’s commercially better. You may argue that the whole world is about visual impact, but somebody needs to make a change. Will those who don’t go by the ideal definition of beautiful continue living their entire life feeling that they’re inadequate?
This is what we’re hoping to change here, by letting the real women, who are not all skin and bones, take centre stage in the industry.
The new venture is about making a change. It cannot be about one single person or a designer. It should be about the entire industry. We would like to join hands with anyone who shares our vision and is interested in making a difference. Another project that we have in the pipeline is designed to provide a platform where weavers and taantis can showcase their work, and uphold our heritage through their craftsmanship. We also want to make our products more eco-friendly and sustainable.





Dhaka’s Military Institute of Science and Technology student Md Ashequr Rahman alias Jilani had been missing since February last year after he went to Istanbul, Turkey to attend a conference.Diplomatic efforts to bring him back went in vain as he already entered Syria through the Turkish border by that time, detectives say.Experts observing militant activities think that Jilani was in the first batch of Bangladeshis who joined international terrorist group Islamic State in Syria.According to IS’ Dabiq magazine published in April, Jilani – named as Abu Jandal Al Bangali – was killed during a battle in Ayn Issa, northern Syria, as he received a hit from a 23mm autocannon. The date could not be known.Also read: IS reveals plans for Bangladesh, regionHis name has now appeared on a list of 261 missing persons releasedon Tuesday by the police’s elite force Rapid Action Battalion. His father, Col Moshiur, was killed in the 2009 BDR Mutiny.During his late teens, Dabiq says, Jilani began listening to the lectures of Anwar al-Awlaki, the spiritual leader of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, and other scholars who were “upon the truth.” He also used to financially support the local militants in addition to the Muslim prisoners there to the best of his ability.Jilani was among the “first of the mujahideens in Bengal” to support Islamic State and managed to go to the IS-dominated area despite facing many obstacles.Story of another missing boy: ‘Don’t worry, I’m in Iraq for jihad’The Dabiq article said: “His plan was to feign travel to an engineering conference in the Middle East as a cover for his hijrah. He would need a reference letter from his college confirming his claim that he was travelling for the purpose of attending the conference.“But the problem was that he had already stopped attending classes at the college due to the sinful environment that existed there. Furthermore, as a young, unemployed student he didn’t have the financial means to pay for his flight nor the conference fees.”Despite this, Jilani was able to forge a reference letter from his college, and managed money needed to cover his expenses “in an equally cunning manner.” When the news leaked that Jilani had left the country and had not attended the conference, his uncle, who was connected with military intelligence agency DGFI tried his best to prevent him from entering Syria, but to no avail.



The Rohingyas admitted that they had escaped Bhashan Char on a rented boat at the dead of night on Thursday to go to one of the camps in Cox's Bazar`
Police detained 12 Rohingyas, including four children, from Noakhali's Companiganj on Friday while they were fleeing Bhashan Char of the district's Hatiya.
Locals spotted them at Dakkhiner Ghat of Ward 3 of Char Elahi Union in the morning.
During interrogation, the Rohingyas admitted that they had escaped Bhashan Char on a rented boat at the dead of night on Thursday to go to one of the camps in Cox's Bazar, according to locals.
On information, Companiganj police went to the spot and brought the 12 Rohingyas to the police station.
Also Read - Bhashan Char better for living but focus must be on Rohingya return
Companiganj police station Officer-in-Charge (Investigation) Md Abul Kalam Azad said: "The detained Rohingyas have been kept in police custody and arrangements are being made to file a case against them."
Since December last year, the government has moved around 20,000 Rohingyas to Bhashan Char and plans to relocate 100,000 refugees to the island.
Bhashan Char is seen by Dhaka as a solution to the severe overcrowding found in the camps dotting the two southern-most upazilas of Cox's Bazar, itself the country's southern-most district, on the border with Myanmar's Rakhine state.
Dhaka has also consistently denied accusations that some of the refugees may have been moved there under duress, or involuntarily at least.



For now, the RCEP appears to have few attractions
Fifteen Asia-Pacific economies signed what could become the world's largest free trade agreement on Sunday, covering nearly a third of the global population and about 30 per cent of its global gross domestic product.
The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) will progressively lower tariffs and aims to counter protectionism, boost investment and allow freer movement of goods within the region.
Joining the pact -- which involves China, Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand and the 10 members of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN): Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, Myanmar, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and the Philippines -- was never on the table for Bangladesh.
“This is for the ASEAN member countries that have already signed afree trade agreement (FTA). As we are not eligible for joining as per the terms and conditions, we could not join the RCEP,” Commerce Secretary Md Jafar Uddin told Dhaka Tribune.
Since it is for ASEAN members, not only Bangladesh but also Nepal, Sri Lanka and Pakistan are not eligible for joining the economic partnership.
“However, we are analysing the impact of the newly inked trade partnership to see whether it would be lucrative or not for us. Nothing is ever fixed in the world of trade and the future direction would be set based on the trade trend and mutual benefits among the partners.”
Right now, Bangladesh’s focus is on hammering out bilateral trade deals, Uddin said.
“We are intensively working on it so that Bangladesh can improve its trade in the region as well as with the global partners,” he said, adding Bangladesh’s impending preferential trade agreement (PTA) with Bhutan by next month as a case in point.
Like Bangladesh, neighbouring India has stayed out of RCEP and does not expect to sign the agreement ever, despite the open invitation from the 15-member group.
India’s definitive stance comes after it reached out to its business community to educate them on the goals of RCEP.
The response was not enthusiastic as business felt it would be swamped by imports with low duties, which it would not be able to compete with. This prompted the neighbouring country to forfeit the opening of joining the mega trade pact.
For Bangladesh, the RCEP appears to have few attractions. In fiscal 2019-20, of the total exports amounting to $33.7 billion, the RCEP countries accounted for about 10.4 per cent of the sum.



Bangladesh reported its highest single-day Covid-19 fatalities on Sunday
With the country set to go for a strict weeklong lockdown from April 14, the government has listed emergency services that will be allowed to operate during the restrictions.
In a gazette notification on Monday, the government said it will allow emergency services such as:
>> Transport vehicles used for agriculture, relief, healthcare, fuel supply, water, electricity, Fire Service, telephone and internet connections, mass media purpose.
>> Anyone on emergency work like buying medicine, attending funerals and getting Covid-19 vaccine.
>> People can buy products from grocery markets and essentials from kitchen markets from 9am to 3pm.
>> Home delivery or takeaway facilities for foods and essentials from 12 noon to 7pm and 12 midnight to 6am.
>> Officials and vehicles associated with food supply, industrial goods, material for government projects.
>> Airports, land ports and seaports, and offices related to those.
>> Medicine shops and hospitals.
>> Industrial factories and export-oriented industries.
To make sure these directives are implemented, law enforcement agencies will intensify patrolling across the country and they will take legal action when necessary.
Also Read - Covid surge: Everything you need to know about the April 14-21 lockdown
Bangladesh reported its highest single-day Covid-19 fatalities on Sunday, surpassing Saturday’s figure.
The health directorate confirmed 78 deaths between 8am Saturday and 8am Sunday, the highest since coronavirus cases were first reported in March last year.
On Saturday, the country had recorded 77 fatalities.
Sunday's numbers took the death toll to 9,739, with the mortality rate staying at 1.42% for the third consecutive day.
Meanwhile, 5,819 new cases were also recorded between Saturday and Sunday mornings, pushing the total to 684,756, according to the health directorate.
Bangladesh reported its first Covid-19 death on March 18 last year, 10 days after the first case was recorded.
This year, the virus claimed 568 lives in January, 281 in February and 638 in March.
The government imposed an apparently lose nationwide lockdown for one week from April 5 in a bid to contain the spike in Covid-19 cases and deaths.
But in the face of protests against the lockdown, the government was forced to resume public transport in cities from Wednesday and reopen shops and shopping malls for five days from Friday.



But there is an intense advantage to be gained by both parties by cooperating on various fronts
A walk down Gulshan, an upmarket locality in Dhaka, and you won’t be able to make out the difference with a similar happening commercial centre in Mumbai.
One evening at Jamuna Future Park -- the largest and post-modern supermall in Bangladesh -- and you would inevitably end up drawing parallels with the upmarket shopping centres in Vasant Vihar and Gurgaon.
One evening’s dinner at Lucknow in Banani, a House of Awadhi cuisine, and you would be finding fault with the daal at Bukhara.
You’re an ex-pat concerned about how to spend life in Bangladesh for the next couple of years of your work term? Worry not -- the party is just about to start.
Gold’s Gym? Round the corner. Amul Paneer? Just a call away. Online grocery and retail shopping? Click away on Chaldal.com and Daraz.com -- which can put to shame many Indian online suppliers with the speed and quality of their delivery. Don’t want to drive a car? Uber it!
Schooling for kids? Choose DPS. International higher education in Covid times? Why don’t you check out the Monash University campus? Bothered about how you’ll carry your annual supply of Parachute Coconut Oil from India? Don’t bother. Pick as many up as you want at the corner store.
Tatas? There! Unilever? There! Nestle? There! Pizza Hut? Oh, come on, the list goes on.
Will I get my Sony Liv? You can subscribe it cheaper in Bangladesh than they sell in India. Will your Netflix subscription work in Bangladesh? Is that even a question? Of course!
You’re the upper elite and only use a global JCI-accredited hospital such as Medanta? Quiet your disquiet. Bangladesh crossed that bridge 14 years ago, with Apollo Hospitals, now Evercare Hospitals. Or have at it at any of the other hospitals, that can put to test any leading Indian health institution.
Want a night out at a five star? Choose your pick -- Le Méridien, Radisson, Intercontinental, Pan-Pacific, Westin … you’ll be spoilt for choice.
But hey, what about crime in Bangladesh? US Department of State’s Overseas Security Advisory Council mentions: “Crime rates impacting foreigners are surprisingly low.” No, you don’t have to guess what OSAC writes about other sub-continental nations.
Then again, you still have your questions. You’re an Indian, and this is Bangladesh. From a predominantly Hindu nation, to a predominantly Islamic one. Religion, culture, language, value systems, dammit the cooking … how in heavens will you manage?
Haven’t you noticed all the call signs till now? A nation where the national anthem is written by our very loved Indian Nobel laureate, a country which has Bengali as their official language -- to protect which the citizens fought and valiantly won freedom, where Tagore’s teachings are compulsory reading in schools, where it’s not just localities like Bashundhara, Uttara that feel so Indian, but where my Muslim friends and colleagues have names like Rajib, Lata, Raju, Tushar that are so endearing, a nation that rose from the depths of all challenges through an entrepreneurial spirit that drives all value systems -- sparking thousands of entrepreneurships across the length and breadth of the country, a nation and its people who put all their trust and confidence in meritocracy, where a most competent woman prime minister is leading the country to the future, a land producing Cambridge world-toppers year after year, an innovative powerhouse inviting with all eagerness the best of talent that the world has to offer, at pay scales that beat even leading international funding organizations.
That, my friends, is today’s Bangladesh. And you said you had questions ... well, now answer some from me.
Did you wonder that while reading this article, not once were you concerned about the political or trade and economic relations between Bangladesh and India? Or about the country’s economic growth? Or human lifestyle indicators?
Well, not that you asked, but here you go.
As per IMF 2019 data, Bangladesh was the sixth fastest growing economy globally -- India was 56th on the list. Fortune titled Bangladesh “The Economic Miracle” of 2019. NASDAQ rated Bangladesh as the 3rd fastest growing economy globally in 2020, at the peak of Covid recessionary trends. The Washington-based International Institute of Finance confirmed in their 2021 report that Bangladesh will continue to lead the world’s fastest growing economies in this new year; a finding seconded by the World Economic 2021 UN report, which ranked Bangladesh number one in the South Asia region too.
And what about human life indicators? Per World Bank, poverty headcount ratio at $1.90 a day stood at 14.5% for Bangladesh; which for India stood above 22% in the last respective census. Average life expectancy in Bangladesh is 72.3 years, while in India it is 69.4 years. In the 2020 United Nations Human Development Index ranking, Bangladesh was just two notches below India.
The truth is, both Bangladesh and India are economic and social powerhouses that do not need each other for their growth. Both these nations have extremely robust economic structures and institutions that are markedly and singularly improving innovation, entrepreneurship, business growth, and human life indexes. It is a fact that these two commanding and dominant nations, separately, are driving global investment interest in South Asia.
At the same time, that these two nations don’t need each other, does not mean that they don’t realize the intense advantage they both gain by cooperating on various fronts.
As one would expect, India is considered as an extremely valued partner by Bangladesh, and vice versa. No surprises here, that Bangladesh is India’s largest trade partner in South Asia -- the nation actually contributing notable trade surplus to India. Tata, Marico, and the other Indian names mentioned earlier, have Bangladesh as their largest foreign market outside India for specific product categories.
Quid pro quo, India continues to invest in multiple small development projects in Bangladesh (close to 80 by the last count), apart from providing appreciable lines of credit to its very valued trade partner.
At the cusp of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Bangladesh, the above relationship between Bangladesh and India attains deeper meaning as this is one association that is slowly but surely developing into a truly mutually beneficial relationship amongst two entities, with each having something of significant equivalent value to provide to the other.
But it is time now that this intense economic and political camaraderie clearly evident between leaders of the two nations should also percolate down to business houses and corporate professionals of the two nations. Cross movement of both FDI and talent will result in multiple further synergies opening up.
To be candid, I am speaking from personal experience. While I worked for more than two decades in India handling various leadership roles, and while my friends and colleagues were emigrating to the usual suspects such as US, Canada, Australia, and the likes, I had been developing a growing interest in Bangladesh, perhaps piqued by my sojourn to this country from 2004-2006, where -- as a part of a consulting project -- I was training the South Asian heads of British American Tobacco at their Dhaka training headquarters.
And then, one fine day three years ago, when the managing partner of Boston Consulting Group called up to ask me whether I was interested in joining an exciting opportunity in Bangladesh, all I could say was: “You had me at hello!”
Dr Sandeep Ananthanarayanan, alumnus of IIM Calcutta and University of Buckingham, is the Group CEO of STS Group, Bangladesh’s largest private sector conglomerate in the health care and education sectors. He is also the QMSC Board member at Bureau of Indian Standards, Government of India. (https://www.linkedin.com/in/dr-sandeep-ananthanarayanan/)




