



Poda poda punnakku, podathe thappu kanakku


Nalla sollingey


India celebrates UK courts simple correct precise judgment. Now all pnb, rbi,
cong, nda if any links, HC judges who certified in UK, legal experts who
certified have to be investigated too. We don't know India stage in courts. UK
justice sharp jail not bail. Why how our SC says no jail yes bail , need to
write crisp judgment readable by all.. Disha bail can be wrong now. Sad UK is
teaching us justice efficiency, how to be direct, no criminal appeasement, no
health, no India ex judges opinion . Good day for nation, with cricket win
too.


Many many were given loan but only few emboldened Nirav Modi to flee after
loot.


This kind of incidents were unimaginable prior to 2014 . . . Intentions are
good. . . agencies are behaving responsibly. . no underhand support to such
frauds. . good for the country and bad for criminals . .


Bhakts are posting WhatsApp nonsense as usual .

  

   The Nirav Modi-PNB scam occurred in     2017-2018   . The fraudulent LOUs (   Letter of undertaking   ) were issued in the period between 2017-2018 .
   PNB has mentioned this in the complaint/FIR filed , that the fraud occurred in this period.

  

If you have evidence that PNB issued fraudulent LOUs before 2014 ,

kindly inform PNB and CBI . Because it is not mentioned in the current
chargesheet.


Please read Bloomberg timeline . It started in 2011 . Found out in 2017 .


Who gave him loan? Without proper documents? Even mallya or choksi also will
be extradited sooner or later. Already ripples in congress leaders and
supporters? Or they have guts that Indian judges on their side.


Most of Nirav Modi’s fraud LoUs issued or renewed in 2017-18 , says CBI


That is becoz he continue to take loans using same old method from banks he
got during up a but got caught


PNB has not made this claim . PNB has clearly stated that ALL the
fraudulent LOUs were issued between _2017-2018_ .

The fraudulent Letters of Undertaking were issued in connivance with certain
Bank officials of a certain branch .

  

There could have been genuine LOUs in the past also , backed with collateral.


the PNB had a lot of Congress appointed people in the past


NO . All of them are avowed BJP supporters .

  

See , i can also make a ridiculous unfounded claim , just like you .


Who are pnb to say this? They are main culprits let court decide. Many heads
of banks and congress will have gala time


All pnb rbi if any, others in minister y if any must be jailed, fast punished,
loot of officer recovered.


 get most of their information from WhatsApp .

Almost all their facts are total nonsense.


it is better to be a  than the slave of dynasty


Who are you? You are also kind of  may be dynasty ?


If a person has made some financial mistakes but his intentions are not to
betray he can rise like Shri Subrato Sahara. He may succeed or not succeed is
not important in the eyes of the Supreme Justice. People like Vijay Malaya who
call themselves King of good times are actually criminals of their employees
also.


Subroto Roy was/is a cheat .

Just 3 months ago , SEBI told Supreme Court that Sahara had failed to comply
with _2012 and 2015_ court orders to deposit the entire amount it collected
ILLEGALLY from investors. More than 30,000 .


Let the court decide. Atleast he is not running away.


He has failed to comply with SC order given in 2012 to repay 30,000 .

That amount has swelled to 60K  after adding interest .

  

He was jailed , after contempt of court and refusing to obey SC order .

He has basically told the SC to get lost , and refused to repay a single paisa
for 9 years .

1000s of small investors have lost money .


Ok.


this first time ever in history of independent India. where is dynasty
commenting on this ? hope this guy gives all details on money made during upa,
like that banker who bought photo from dynasty for 


A quote from Sucheta Dalal, senior financial journalist who broke the Harshad
Mehta scam in the 90s -

> " Would anyone like to guess who is India's largest corporate defaulter?

> Think hard. It is not Mallya, Nirav Modi, Not even Essar-Ruia ...etc. NO
> ACTION taken against him by strong GOVT of INDIA! This one has filed
> bankruptcy!

> Many people are touchingly clueless about the extent of corporate default.
> yes, a default of  (nirav), (Mallya) is big,
> but we are talking about    15 times  the amount (at least) and no
> muscular gov. action! in fact SILENCE.

> thundering silence over A    NIL  Payment going into 6 figures (Lakh
> crores)

> one question remains ... why aren't we outraged? Why dont we ask questions?
> "





Why? Nirav modi will reveal all congress names?


for running away from India , and for scamming indian PSU banks.


I'm sure you will say who allowed him to escape. True govt didn't realise
before his scam came to light. By that time he had left.


Yeah correct he and his given loans by corrupt chidu without verification.
That scam came to light only after 2014. Had moun Singh upa was back in 2014,
by this time banks who gave loans to this man would have closed.


Incorrect . Punjab National Bank has stated in it's FIR that the scam occurred
in 2017-2018.

The 150 fraudulent LOU's ,     mentioned in the chargesheet      , issued in
connivance with certain bank officials were issued in 2017-2018 .


Congress is losing the fight however you may try.


What about Mehul Bhai and Swami Nithyananda?


U missed mallya


Nirav Modi is more dangerous to Cong than Narendra Modi.

  

Already CBI has evidence of the Congress Leaders who are partners of
Nirav Modi in the Mega PNB Loot


The Nirav Modi-PNB scam occurred in 2017-2018 . The fraudulent LOUs (  Letter of undertaking  ) were issued in the period between 2017-2018 .
   PNB have mentioned in the complaint/FIR filed , that the fraud occurred in this period.
   And yet this  just pulled up some imaginary nonsense out of his/her backside that Dr.MMS helped Nirav Modi cheat PNB.

  

If you have evidence that PNB issued fraudulent LOUs before 2014 , kindly
inform PNB and CBI . Because it is not mentioned in the current chargesheet.


Do not try hide the facts.

  

Fraudulent LOUS are being issued right from 2023.

  

It's because of Narendra Modi that Nirav & Mallya are being brought to India


Had judge ruled nirav modi innocent, then also u would hv called
nonsense . Now judge approved his extradition still nonsense ? How
to make congress  happy?


Yes. When CBI confronts Nirav Modi with Documentary Evidence & other witness
he has to confess & expose the Congress Leaders who helped him loot the PNB
Bank.

Manmohan too may go to Jail.





I congratulate the Government for this win by getting a favourable ruling. As
a common citizen, I am pleased that the Modi Government has shown intent and
persistence! I hope it follows up in the High Court as the ruling is certain
to be appealed. I also hope the Government will mount pressure on the Home
Office to ensure the extradition actually takes place. Nirav Modi is a slimy
SOB and is capable of anything including a fake suicide attempt to strengthen
his case!

  

I would further urge this Government to bring back Mallya, Mehul Choksi,
Sandesaria Brothers and other looters and frauds and more importantly, recover
the looted tax payer money along with ensuring punishment to these
perpetrators!


Lol... have a hope! 😁


Why loose hope? We need mallya and choksi as well.


Satish please look at Emcee's comment and then reply.


Yes hang Hussain. .


He is the main one. Others have charges of inciting. I never support any such
people.


Same 'Oink' & same selfies fromdifferent PPP (Presstitute Pork Porphets) with
same Sharia (hearsay) !!


Welcome to India soon


It is nothing. He will appeal to the High Court. Win at first small step in a
long-drawn battle.


Yes. Cong is planning to send a Team of Lawyers to assist Nirav challenge Westminister Magistrate's order
   Nirav has only 14 days to file an appeal & another 3 months for HC. 
   At the most Nirav can delay his extradition by another 6 months. 
   Manmohan, Chidu & Pappu will go behind bars if Nirav lands in Indian & starts singing


He is a close relative of amit shah. U think he will let it happen. 2 marwaris
together can make anyone garwari


Drama begins just in time for West Bengal elections. Now  will thump
his chest claiming that this is the result of his efforts.

But Nirav will stay there, that's for sure.


If you really believe our  can make the UK Courts enact a drama, then
you accept  is a global Leader!!!!


☺





he has not been extracted






🤩


I ho  papa BS is safe n sound


Just met a new puppy


Just met a new 


Make his  and eat


Shawarmazee acts like a chimpanzee exactly what saffron bozos n cata mites
teach at shakha


Ha ha ha shawarmajee spoke like a true shakha clxown from plamet shakhaland

A creature of few words and fewer brain cells...


From your name it appears you are from shakha.


THE END of the c orrupt, incompetent, E VIL R IGHT W ING HINDUFASCIST N A Z I
IDEOLOGY HITLER LOVING BJP/RSS SANGHI TERRORIST PIIGS led by CHOR CHOKI DAR
F.E.K.U MODI PIIG, the but cher of Gujrat




The accused criminal is using all the tricks to escape from the judicial
proceedings and to great extent the cong government in Punjab supported him.
But he can not escape any longer as the UP government is tough against the
criminals.


How you knowing it, ash?


A brave gangester now hiding behind false medical ailments. It is his fear of
Yogi administration.


It is no wonder that this guy is using a wheel chair in order to get
sympathies. He has learned this theatre of using the wheel chair from the
super Bollywood stunt star Mamta of W. Bengal.


he came on wheelchair in an ambulance. But charade was not sufficient to move
the court.

Once mighty gangster of eastern UP, who use to lord it all over, is now
behaving in a pathetic manner. Shows that all the  was because of
state patronage. Same was the case with Dawood, who had the support of Sharad
Pawar. Scene is worst than Italian Mafiosi genre.


Is it not a prejudice to pronounce judgement like Islamic Terrorist by a
honourable law maker Swarupji. There must be some decency and respect for the
judiciary to refrain from such language as long as Court does not pronounce
its verdict..


If criminals and terrorists are scared in UP that means UP govt must be doing
something good ... in the past these anti-social elements have taken advantage
of systems in their favour ... now it's payback time for them.


ONLY HINDU CRIMINALLS AND TERRRRRORIST ARE ENJOYING IN UP under dongI yogi
BIASED ATTITUDE TOWARDS MUSLIMSSSS


Why do you bring religion into crime, unless you are admitting the followers
of so called peaceful religion are the criminals.




after the babri issue thes sanghis are left with no other issue for
polarisation


Do Stalin give 10  Bangladeshi & Pakistan & Afghan Muslims to illegal occupy
Tamilnaidu and take all poor Tamilnaidu people jobs food land from
Tamil????????????????????????????????---let Stalin give   10 cr Bangladeshi &
Pakistan & Afghan Muslims  \- to occupy Tamilnaidu & TamilNaidu land people
would not get any things --then let see after Stalin would accept CAA or not??


DO STALIN KNOWS WHAT IS CAA ????? Illiterate Stalin-----CAA is no use in Sputh
India & other states of India ===Stalin FIRST KNOW why CAA to COMe TO BENGAL &
ASSAM & NE people house then speak about caa


CAA is not from any states of India --other than westbengla and aSSAM &
nORTHEAST







Let her enjoy bail. No reservation on crime either for me or anyone else. She
is a old player though only 24.years old. Disha was new. Take care rest I
will. .


. Keep posting.


Another  gang monkey trying to get a break in politics


Ask your BOSS continue monkey .




