


Week 5 trp is 2.9 and 4th across all genre. It was Maharani ending week I guess. Really commendable work done by the team. I hope they continue with such work.


Hope it maintains these trp in coming weeks too with good tracks ..


Yes and the thing is they are keeping good TRP without promos. Why isn't colors promoting the show?




https://twitter.com/Vivian_Dsena Web/status/961909860731273216

https://twitter.com/Vivian_Dsena Web/status/961911916871299072


Offscreen:  https://twitter.com/Ritu56358009/status/961882977545285632
Vivian looking gorgeous in red   

















Wow awesome pics Viv is looking smoking hawttt <3 Cant wait for d epi Thanks anita for sharing such beautiful pics :)


Nice pics Anita 
VD's coat color is Orange or RED 
If its Red then he got the right color coat bcz red is the color of love and he is wearing it on the day of love  But its looking kinda orangish to me especially in the 2nd pic


Handsome Hero


Its good to see him give byte or speak about show trps after a long time  .. he looks happy and relaxed


Ishu...orange/red......but just loved him in this jacket...




Exactly Jyoti...we rarely get these bytes...was happy for that...as also his offscreen moments...casual and relaxed wasgreat to see.


Thanks  Anita for  pictures  and vivian  look hot in red


His recent interviews speak volumes .. he looks content in life and sort of happy with what he is doing ..


Excellent post with red hot dsena Vd in red always a instigation of sensual appetite and as harman he's enjoying in ahans bday party with his friends both on and off screen love his blending with arjun rashmi and others Am feeling lack of air in my lunghs when ever i see my vd in red and in this charming mood 
 make more post like this anita forum gets life it looks decorated while u made this type of post


Sorry for being so late in rply as u know i have to wait fr getting lappy Even forum is not permitted me to like its shows u have to login




Welcome Everyone

Here you can post all your Creations related to the show and the Actors...



Rules to Follow :-

#Avoid quoting creations as they make the page heavy.
#Use @ symbol to appreciate the person's creations.
#Avoid Spamming/Chatting.

Link To The pervious creation;http://www.india-forums.com/forum_posts.asp?TID=4841808




Pin It Please.




credit saher_90






https://www.india-forums.com/forum_posts.asp?TID=5013027&TPN=133


Siggies & Gif by Asima 

https://i.imgur.com/QvPU0zw.jpg



https://i.imgur.com/yk2KCxa.jpg



https://i.imgur.com/ISsd2uy.gif


credit : saher_90






https://www.india-forums.com/forum_posts.asp?TID=5013027&TPN=134




https://i.imgur.com/DeWHq0Z.jpg









https://i.imgur.com/




https://i.imgur.com/KRO0T1X.jpg


https://i.imgur.com/Nb0O9BD.jpg




https://i.imgur.com/hrm Jtq4.jpg


https://i.imgur.com/BMOWtQ8.jpg




https://i.imgur.com/YhJ8QbZ.jpg




https://i.imgur.com/i1YZKjQ.jpg




c




x




z














Vivian Dsena is the King of India Tv









can some one predict the end of this track..its been 3 weeks( or more!!  ).what are they upto.it is like a nevr ending track.will they be permanent here or pinku's character will also make an exit with them forever??? i saw  track today ..pinku was very much GD resident then.he came back from school with tappu  and at night he was present there too.


According to the show he used to live with his relatives n Gokuldham but later shifted somewhere else.. remember he had even changed his school later..Correct me if I'm wrong I'm not into Tmkoc since long





For ending I have two guesses 
1) if pinku's parents are introduced they would be someone like busy in their lives all the time no time for pinku then pravachan from champak taarak and whole goluldham society 
2) if pinku's parents are not shown then I guess it would be pravachan to pinku for lying


i think 2nd option.I have no hope for introduction of pinku's parents


From appearance of that lady it was quit clear that she is house maid . No way anybody can say that she is the owner of the house. 


This track is so silly even from pinku's pov. 'My parents dont live with me' should have been enough. He is old enough to live alone. Students of his age live alone when they change cities for educational purposes.He is said to be year older than Tappu sena. 












Thats because Pinku said his mother is a marathi and his father's language has Rajasthani influence although he ks not a Rajasthani




Just started watching the serial..read somewhere that the lead is a transgender..what exactly have they shown?..like is it a male trapped in female body or make disguised as female?...what about the sexual orientation of the female lead?


She is a transgender. She is a third gender. She is nor male nor female. I basically don't know much about this topic but I know is they try to live like a woman because they mentally think like a female.


A transgender is someone who thinks they have been assigned the wrong gender at birth. So they may be born as a male but they think they should be a female and vice versa. They then behave like a female if born as a male or behave as a male if born as a female  Whereas an intersex is someone who may be predominantly feminine or masculine but their gender assignment is difficult because there is biological ambiguity. It is possible to treat both transgender and intersex nowadays. As I understand it is easier to treat intersex people so that if they are predominantly feminine they can became a woman. Some are even able to give birth. However some wish not to have the correction because of the complications and call themselves the 3rd gender. Soon worldwide gender will not be binary anymore. There is a big movement going on about that. Lots of stuff available on the internet. You can read. I am involved in research on people who are conflicted with their gender assigned at birth hence I know somewhat about this topic. 



What about her genitals?..male or female?


The way cvs are portraying Saumya she does not seem to be a transgender but am intersex woman. They may have both male and female or underdeveloped organs. This can be corrected by reconstructive surgery if they wish. If they have wombs etc.they can become pregnant. In South Asia transgenders and intersex are lumped into one category called . After I started watching Shakti I did a lot of reading and watching documentaries just out of interest. Then by coincidence I was offered a research project on transgenders which I happily accepted and discussed with clinicians who see such people on a daily basis. They do get married, have relationships and also children not only in the West but also in India and Bangladesh. 

The lead actor Rubina I believe understands the difference between transgender and intersex because she has used correct terminology in her interviews. Don't know about the other actors or the creative team.


Saumya character is an intersex mostly female with having some physical abnormally


... Thanks. Can you please tell the difference between the both. Really wanna know.




Is mohini going to return? Viren and shanno said they will plot by contacting with her. In valentines day special mohini is performing a dance sequence. Is sara khan enterting the show again? With Maharani?


I think Mohini will return for revenge this time but she wont b staying in Singh house like before .. she might operate from outside which is still fine as long as we dont hv to watch her  nonsense


Exactly . Her  nonsense is horrible. I think she might marry varun as surbhi is getting a new guy.


Maharani character is end bt from last dialogue of her exit scene it seems she will return to take her revenge


Both Maharani and mohini will return someday




saw the new promo 
 over hears pinkoo telling his servants. .
good  no one came to know that they are not his real parents... 
so another  lecture on the way 



First of all I don't understand this at all
For 8 long years no member of gokuldham had any care for pinku and now suddenly  as if pinku is so important to them
And why forcing someone so much is beyond my understanding 
And  this has become sole agenda of this show
And expect  not only from champak but whole gokuldham 
I am damn sure even if pinku's parents are introduced they would be shown like someone who doesn't care for their child at all
How can they because they don't live in  gokuldham society and then more 


my thought exactly  on the way


pravachan and all gyan for others 
all gokuldham members had lies many times 
and now they will lecture (all of them ) to poor pinku




I found Friday Episode quite interesting from the Story POV and so decided to make a post on it ...After Ages , I m looking forward to a track from a story POV other than just waiting for HaYa moments simply because track is HaYa centered and there is certain curiosity element in the track which makes it interesting  .. I m curious to know if Saumya will perform this Araval Puja and break Harman's trust ? ..I m also curious to know if Harman will feel betrayed because of trust being broken and whether this could lead to Harman angry on Saumya followed by Saumya making efforts to win his trust back ?  .. Last but not the least I m also curious about the possible HaYa Office Track now that Harman spoke about establishing his own independent factory with his own merit along with Saumya's support ..



Araval Puja Track : Will Saumya Break Harman's Trust ? 

Will Talk about this Araval Puja Track first  ..From a Story Telling POV , I m fine with whatever C Vs show in this Puja track as we cannot always expect HaYa happily ever after till the show is on air   and for once let C Vs hv the freedom to tell the story as they wish as long as track is focussed on HaYa and not Mohini or other sideys  .. So even if Saumya goes onto perform this puja and break Harman's trust , I will want to see how Harman reacts to it and how Saumya finally puts in some effort and wins his trust back again ...I just dont want another HaYa separation over a stupid puja  but I m fine with angry Harman and then Saumya trying to manaofy him ..It sort of also gives acting scope to the actors as too much of sweet romance can give us all diabetes in the end , so like Vivian said in his interview that, sometimes u need to spice it up ..It will b really interesting to see Saumya's actions and Harman's reactions in this Puja track .. Whether she goes ahead with this puja or not , but she did break Harman's trust by not telling him about the puja , so in the end I really want to see an intense HaYa confrontation over this which should b an interesting watch for us too as viewers ..

Also I hv googled about this Araval Puja a bit and found out that this puja is possible only if the  is not married .. Since  dont really get married , so they marry their Araval Devta(God) for one night and then also become same Devta's Widow for a day as they believe by doing so , they will take rebirth as a woman in their next birth .. This is the reason why Saya dont want Saumya to perform this puja as she is now a married  and so its not possible for her to marry some other Man even if its a God   ; Mayb thats why Kareena and Shanno made sure Saumya does this puja but without her knowing the exact details of this puja , so that on the day of the puja they can create a big misunderstanding between HaYa   ; So if Saumya finds out the details of this puja , she will for sure back out but the big question is will anyone tell her the details of this puja ? She will as it is hide her marital status while doing this puja as she will b dressed as Tarana there , so noone will really bother to tell her that a married  cannot perform this puja and since she too dunno the details , she might go ahead with the puja only to b stopped by Harman in the climax I guess which might lead to a big fight between HaYa ..

My above prediction does sound scary  but like I said after ages , I m looking forward to some track as it carries the curiosity factor and is centered around HaYa's relationship ...Till now HaYa were looking like supporting leads as the track was focussing on Harak-Mohini-Preeto triangle  but now finally the focus has shifted to HaYa and  angle once again , reason why I dont mind this track because in the end it deals with the  concept only and  indeed do this puja as one can see many videos on youtube and google about this puja if u search on net   ..So we too will get to see that dark side of  world especially the ones who r watching this show for the concept .. 


HaYa Bangle Scene :

Apart from the Puja track , I also loved the HaYa bangle scene  and I m glad finally C Vs r trying out different romantic sequences on HaYa beyond food romance ...From Lap Scene to Pillow fight scene to now the Bangle scene , HaYa r finally progressing ..Also I m enjoying those soft forehead and hand kisses that r often exchanged between HaYa these days like a normal couple in love .. Waiting for Cheek and neck kiss next 




It was yet another Breathtaking and sensuous HaYa scene today as Harman brings red bangles as gift for his Gulabo and then he makes Saumya wear those bangles with his own hand in most passionate & seductive way ..Once again I got goosebumps watching the scene especially the way he was giving those intense bedroom looks to her while putting those bangles in her hand while she kept blushing and enjoying all the pampering done by her husband  ...While putting bangles in her hand , she got hurt a bit when she gives him that naughty look exchange as if telling him to go slow  while he softly bangs his head with hers to silently make her realise that he knows his Gulabo is very delicate ...In a on-location segment we did see that Rubi actually got hurt a little bit and then Viv was like u gave me that naughty look , so I dint say anything and went ahead with the scene  which is clear indication that Viv Ina actually makes their own improvisations in these romantic scenes which makes the scene look so real , intense and perfect as both give their own inputs and improvise accordingly  .. This says a lot about the amazing comfort level that both share in such scenes 




I really loved the way he seductively blow air on her face before putting bangles in her 
hand while she blush and close her eyes as the breath of his air touch her cheeks , its almost like he is kissing her cheeks and she closes her eyes to feel and relish his touch  


The way Harman
 was seductively putting bangles in her hand while making love to her 
with his eyes ishhh I dunno how any girl can resist it  ..I myself got butterflies in my stomach while watching it  ..Noone can romance a girl like Vivian on screen  ..And I loved the response that Rubi gives to every single gesture done by Vivian..This Action and Reaction between both Vivina made the scene picture perfect as both look heavenly in that Red and Black Combo 


After putting bangles loved the way Harman gently plants those soft  kisses on Saumya's both hands while giving her that intense passionate look filled with desire & then makes a heartfelt romantic confession that these red bangles r 
color of his love & their chan chan musical sounds are his heartbeat aww .. He even asks her to take pride whenever she sees those bangles in her hand as she will always remember how her husband loves her like crazy whenever she will touch those bangles  ..His every dialogue here was symbolic as he has himself touched those bangles while making her wear it and so whenever she will see or touch those bangles she will feel the warmth of Harman's love and affection in those bangles..Like he said , he is putting his pride and faith in these bangles and want her to feel the same pride whenever she sees or touch those bangles as these bangles r like symbol of their divine love  ...



Saumya was completely overwhelmed hearing such a heartfelt confession from him and so she too promised him that she will never remove these bangles as she too loves him like a  ..Aww .. I really loved the way Saumya did the gesture of touching his hand with her eyes which was symbolic way of telling him that she worship those hands which touched her with so much of warmth and made her feel like a complete woman ..After she touch his hand with her eyes , he kisses the same hand of his to symbolically tell her that her every  touch is very precious to him which he will preserve it forever by sealing it with a kiss 




I guess these confessions r sort of future indication for the upcoming puja when she will b asked to remove those bangles for the puja as in that puja she will hv to marry their God and become widow too and then it will b her test of love as Harman has put his complete faith and pride in those bangles , so removing them will mean betraying his same faith and pride , Will Saumya do that , remains to b seen ...I m sure Saumya will never remove these bangles as she has made a promise to him unless C Vs once again wants to compromise her character and show her breaking this promise ..But surely this entire bangle scene was hinting the upcoming track and is interconnected to this Puja where Harman's pride and faith in Saumya will b put to test and it will b seen whether Saumya can live upto her promise and the faith that her husband has shown in him  .. From a Story Telilng POV , it does look like a good track if handled well as it gives us an insight about the  Puja as well which happens in real  and also for the first time Saumya will hv to prove her love and live upto the promises that she has made to her husband .. In any case Harman has the right to b angry on her irrespective of whether she performs this puja or not as she has already broken his trust by not telling him about performing this puja ... I really want to see this intense confrontation between both once he finds out what Saumya is upto ..


HaYa Office Track with Independent Harman :

Apart from this Bangle Scene and Upcoming Puja Track , I m also interested to see how Harman will independently start his work on his new factory along with his wife Saumya as he challenged Harak that he dont need any old established factories , those can b given to Viren  as he is capable of starting his own factory and become successfull on his own merit because his biggest strength that is Saumya is with him  ..So this confession by Harman clearly indicates that post this Puja track , we might get a strong HaYa office track where HaYa will start their own independent factory and make it big on their own merit ...



Once again Harman beautifully gives the message of Equality between Husband and Wife when it comes to working in Office ..Unlike his Father and  , he dont believe in making his wife sit at home or just manage household chores , instead he wants his wife to work in office with him and become equally successful like him .. This is the true definition of Equality and Feminism that is beautifully defined by Harman ..I m really loving the way He is making insurance policies and joint bank accounts for his wife , thus securing her future and now wanting her to become a working lady too ...WOW ..Rarely we see such husbands in daily soaps who will encourage their wife to work or handle business ...This is one quality of Harman which I simply adore ..He never thinks only about his own self .. Its always a joint decision that he takes for him and his wife .. Its like he considers his wife as his equal which is quite a rarity in our society especially when u r talking about small towns like Gurdaspur  

Again this is another reason why I loved the friday episode as it gives a hint about the possible office track too .. On one hand Harman is planning so much for his wife in a progressive manner and on other hand his wife is stuck with the regressive thought process of performing some stupid puja  .. Its a sad irony but I would love to see how Harman changes her mindset once he finds out the reality .. Its very important for Saumya to realise that Kinner is also a gender which is nothing to b ashamed of as one should respect what God has given us instead of challenging it with such pujas ..

I hope HaYa starts working on this new factory soon & we get a office track with 
intro of a new male business rival as a strong villain in the 
show ..Enough of Puja & family drama..Time fr some Office track.. 

 
So overall I m really looking forward to the Upcoming Tracks as all look promising to me .. Only problem is C Vs hv a habit of messing up promising tracks which I hope wont b the case this time again ...


v. nice post Im also looking forward to the new tracksnd this is why i also enjoyed friday's epishaya scene was v. magical .hope to see such scenes often.
What about the australia track?


Yes I m also looking forward to these tracks as they r all HaYa focussed now .. 

Australia track is not confirmed yet but in yesterday Epi Harman spoke about taking Saumya abroad in that last office scene .. so mayb it will come around IPL time ..


Nice post and beautiful pictures now is time to make soumya strong to fix kareena and Raveena


Nice analysis as expected from uLooking forward for the track to unfold


Nice Analysis As Always Jyoti.
But Please Dont Call A Puja Stupid.
No Matter What Puja's Are Never Stupid.


I also read another spoiler where it was written that  Harman Saumya wil go to Turkey to find their son Aditya



