


Clue:-



	Might join as a net bowler for  



	 



	@Trichromatic   @Cricketics  @Rightarmfast


Dale Steyn




How much is Bumrah worth in terms of US dollars to his IPL franchise and BCCI contract?


Congratulations!


Congrats! Bunraah's wife is pretty


Avi Monga



									 





									@shenny A Vcooper










										 














			Replying to

				@sagarcasm







				What Mayank sees











								 





										 














				4:48 PM · Mar 15, 2021·Twitter Web App



				 









						2

					Retweets


Congrats to the couple..  My Gosh she's pretty


" You guys" !!! .......We need to get Real McCoy onto this and give us his expert opinion  I am Scottish so maybe the Trans lation got lost on me lol


Congratulations. I followed her for quite a while on Insta. She is so classy and articulate.


Congrats to couple, But how long they have been in a relationship, never even came across about them single time, or media were too busy covering Viru Shka?


Congratulations to the lovely couple  !



	 



	May you have a long and wonderful life together !!


Congrats boom boom!


Congrats to the couple!


Congrats Bumrah!


Congrats to the couple


Congratulations . Full enjoyment 


	 



	their kids will be a punjabi/gujji/Tamil hybrid


I am impressed the way Bumrah kept his personal life away from media in this era. Not like our Captain who does not let go any chance to be a showman.


This guy is definitely a superstar. Future captain imo. 



	 



	Bumrah vs Cummins of Aussies. 



	 



	Going down as probably 2 of the greatest Pacers of modern era. 



	 



	Good luck. 



	 



	I see a lot of Punjabi tamil combos these days. Congrats.


They will make fish 


Add Maharashtra, from her mom's side




Congrats to the lovely couple.


There's no word called TAMILIAN. It shouldn't be. It's wrong. It should be 



	 



	Bloody mainstream Indian media has invented a non existent word and gave life to it.


Tamil veeran. Period.


Calm down, tamilian


He has stellar record with the ball in all formats for India. Hope he continues the streak. 



	Congratulations and please keep the back in top shape. You'll be sorely required in WTC and England tour.


Did not know that.


Another hypocrite, at least practise what you preach, . 











	 



	 Say no to crackers?






	 



	, weddings, anniversaries, birthday parties  not applicable. Not just Bumrah....Kohli, Yuvraj, Bollywoodias all do the same. 



	 



	Some poor child living in Dharavi slum bursts one cracker on Diwali eve, one shred of happiness and SM shaming starts, Indian state swoops down upon the kid to torture him/her, puts the parents behind bars, vandalizes their house etc. But elites have different set of rules. 



	 



	Thought Boom would be different, alas. Just another elite, woke hypocrite.


^^^ beat me to it. 


He's only following the lead of our pozzed ass captain who himself is trying to enhance his brand value by co opting globohomo causes. The silence from the cricket team on many issues was quite deafening the past year for a reason.


This is more hilarious than Umar Akmal's tweets


Outstanding


all this for bursting crackers? did that ever happen outside your vivid imagination?


You a libbu? If so don't bother to reply, can't stand that category. Otherwise here are some reports.....



	 



	Diwali in Delhi: Father arrested, FIR launched after neighbours report children bursting firecrackers



	An FIR has been registered against the man who is likely to pay a heavy fine or spend six months in prison.



	Reports suggest that the man's neighbours objected to his children bursting firecrackers on the day of the incident. However, the children did not pay heed to the neighbour's warnings which led to them reporting the matter to the police who arrived soon after and took the boy's father into custody. It is believed that the arrest was made to send out a message to residents deterring from buying and bursting firecrackers.



	 



	More arrests made, google is your friend like 850 held for flouting curbs, 1.2k cases filed



	Arrested For The ‘Crime’ Of Bursting Crackers: How The Indian State Clamped Down On Diwali Celebrators



	On Deepavali, 7 arrested, 200 booked in TN for bursting crackers outside fixed time



	Delhi: 850 arrested on Diwali night, over 1,200 cases for bursting crackers



	 



	And this is what is done to small time vendors, don't feel pity for that little girl? Or is it ok because they aren't elites? Yogi had to step in and make the cops apologize to the girl and her parents.


oh okay, didn't know these incidents. law is definitely applied based on class in India




Can not go in with 5 bowlers even in T20s. Especially with one of them Hardik. Axar should not have been dropped and need to get back him in the side, if it means having to drop SKY - though I really want him in the 11, Iyer is hard to drop now- then so be it


	The pitch helped Hardiks style of bowling slow cutters; but really he is not a front line bowler



	 



	Kishan, KL, Virat, Iyer, Pant, Hardik, Sundar, Thakur, Axar, BK, Chahal



	 



	... we still have enough depth with Sundar to BK from 7 to 10


yes 6 bowling options are must


6 Pandya 



	7.Jadeja



	8.Sundar



	9.Bhuvi



	10.Bumrah



	11.Nattu


I think 6 bowling options are a must in ODI's (to cover for bad days and any injury and maintain intensity) but in t20s though...its just 4 overs we might be able to get away with it, what we need to do is after Hardik pick 4 proper wicket taking bowlers


At full strength this is a good pace attack in both 50 and 20 overs...but spin looks weak, Chahal can come in for BK or TN if needed, esp in T20 Is. Might Need to unearth a good ODI finger spinner, have Kul Cha had their day, or still life in them yet


If t20s its a reasonable attack,for 50 overs fairly weak


Ofcourse, 6 bowlers are must. But it is also important that our no.7 is a good hitter. Sundar is not a solution for no.7.



	 



	Right now, it was important to give SKY and Kishan chances so the idea of going with 7 batsman was right. Once Jadeja comes back, it will be decided who gets replaced- Shreyas or SKY? I think over a course of 3 matches in this series and Asia Cup where Kohli and Rohit won't be there, SKY will ultimately shine over Shreyas as latter is a little one-dimensional.



	 



	So, once Jadeja comes back, we go back to 5 bat + 1 Pandya + 1 Jadeja + 4 bowlers rule.


I would not worry too much about playing 5 bowlers in bilaterals, preferring those who bowl 4-5, along with backups, to get more matches to practise


Bumrah



	Shami



	Bhuvi 



	 



	Best combo easily. One of the best attacks in the world in odi and tests.



	 



	Then add Jadeja pandya into th mix. 



	Also add Sundar as batsman and part time bowler in odi. Perfect. 



	 



	I Do think however we need to sell some backups. 



	 



	Funnily enough Umesh as 3rd bowler or even Varun Aaron or some of the young ones like Tyagi and prasidh MUST BE drafted in.



	Umesh can't lead an attack but he is a damn good support bowler even in odi. I would go with Tyagi and orasidh though.


Agreed. 



	I will pick this lineup only in t20s.


Limit to either Shreyas or Rahul. With Pant becoming more reliable , we need more all-rounder option


Can't Sky/Iyer bowl a couple of overs? It's a real pity that none of our top order batsmen bowl like how Yuvraj/Shwag/Sachin used to in the past.


They don't need to. In Today's era of T20s, their 2 overs of bowling means leaking about 35 runs. 7 batsman is only current approach. It will ultimately change once ROCKSTAR returns.


Indeed, shows how he is the best player of this team. Absolutely agree and waiting for his return. Champion.


Who is rockstar?


Rest Kohli (he's played 4 tests and 2 T20Is back to back),  pick a bowler.



	 



	No Dhawan, Rohit and Kohli for the last 3 matches. A generational change. Youngsters will grab their chances, our T20I cricket will move forward


Exactly bro.


6. Hardik



	7. Jadeja



	8. Sundar / R. Chahar / Chahal



	9. Shardul / Bhuvi



	10. Shami / Prasidh / Saini



	11. Bumrah


7 batsmen over 5 bowlers if we don't have a choice. The 7th batsman can turn around the game & rescue the inning but the 5th/6th bowlers, not as high probability.


Sir




Good list. Put Shardul at 8.


I am not in favour of adding Bhuvi in Odi team.  No thanks.  Dude had horrible record in ODIs for sometime.  There was a stat during WC where he was barely picking up any wickets. 



	Pace attack I'd like to see as Bumrah is rested for ODIs. 



	Siraj (gun new ball option) 



	Shardul (picks wickets somehow) 



	Prasidh ( About time we unleash him)  



	 



	Spin attack: Sundar,  Kuldeep/Rahul Chahar 



	A/R : Pandya


Bowler 5 and 6 are most likely part timers and could get you in trouble.



	 



	It should be 5 strike bowlers all the time.



	 



	If your 6 bats cannot put runs on board you are toast anyway.


No you need 3 quality strike bowlers and the 4th bowler to be a combination 2 allrounders that can bat if required, Sundar can be one.



	 



	If Pandya can become a quality strike bowler, along with Jaddu who already is, India becomes a formidable opponent that can bat deep and have a player at 9 who can win the game for us.


Jaddu is not a quality strike bowler in LOIs, neither is Hardik



	 



	Ideally that is Jasprit, Bhuvi/Natarajn, Chahal,



	 



	then Sundar, Jadeja and Hardik to make up the rest of the overs between them


Theyve one in with 5 bowlers again, one of them Hardik, it is idiotic selection. Say he pulls up, or gets hammered... any of the bowlers can have a bad day... who does Virat turn to to make up the overs.... this stupid 5 bowler theory will get especially tested today whilst England are chasing... Eng can target one or two weak links and there is no flexibility in terms of other options



	 



	We dont need batting all the way till no 10... as Khota says if the top 6 or 7 cant do it, no point in stacking the lower middle order for a 20 over match


No Pandya can never become quality strike bowler. Never.


Gambo spot on with 6 bowlers


Ideal line up for 2023 world cup:



	 



	R Sharma



	P Shaw



	KL Rahul



	V Kohli



	R Pant



	H Pandya



	R Jadeja



	R Ashwin



	R Bishnoi (Any other new legspinner)



	M Shami



	J Bumrah



	 



	Reserves:



	 



	S Gill



	S Dhawan



	Quick Bowler



	Quick Bowler


With Hardik not able to bowl, we are hamstrung with just 5 bowlers. Kurnal is not good enough to give 10 overs a match every match, and on this form/pitches neither is Kuldeep. We need a 6th option for one several guys are having a terrible day like today.



	 



	Rohit, Rahul, Virat, Pant, Hardik, Sundar, Krunal, Thakur, BK, Chahal, Krishna



	 



	Pant or Hardik at 4 is too high... could replace Hardik with SKY .. or Sundar is potentially good enough to bat at 4?


What is Hardik doing in the team if he is not gonna bowl,just play SKY  and trust SKY,Pant,Krunal and Sundar/Axar to do the finishing



	 



	Rohit, Rahul, Virat, SKY, Pant, ,Krunal, Axar,Thakur, BK, Chahal, Krishna


Yes thats the other option. Or staright swap Hardik for Sundar, Sundar is not a finisher he needs to be at 5 at least, but will chip in with ball ..



	 



	Rohit, Dhawan, Virat, KL, Sundar, Pant, Krunal, Thakur, BK, Chahal, Krishna


If 6 don't work, can we play 8 of them


Hardik injury has affected our balance big time


we may need 7 the way our bowling is leaking. on a serious note, what I'd like to see is: Shami/Prasidh + Bhuvi bowling up front, Boom Boom as first change, Rahul Chahar (or Bishnoi) as attacking middle over spinner, Jaddu as holding role (mostly selected for overall package) + Hardik to bowl a few overs here and there.




Since the bilateral series v Eng is on, a good time to discuss this ... While there are a lot of solid players, overall considering a variety of factors, it is probably b/w Pollard and Morgan



	 



	* Leadership skills



	* Middle order power hitters (high value assets)



	* Clutch players 



	* Excellent fielders 



	* Pollard bowls too 



	* Extremely fit players (Someone like Russell can break down in a long tournament) 





	 



	Honorable mentions 



	* Archer - fantastic bowler though loses points for fielding 



	* Russell - tendency to breakdown as mentioned so loses points 



	* SDP - operated only as a batsman recently so loses on bowling points, which makes him more competitive in the best of the best comparisons 



	* Warner - consistency as a top order batsman



	* Buttler - #1 T20 WK batsman 



	* Rashid Khan - superb spinner



	 



	Vote and discuss!


Virat Kohli



	 



	 



	lol


Archer is fantastic fielder


Has a tendency to drop catches


He has been playing in every franchise league in the world for a few years now.  How much more exposure will it take for the opposition to figure him out?



