



They both seem to have clothes on. Whats the problem? Are we pretending, as a society, that attraction between humans does not exist? Q:  A: 


What's so prococative about it? Is everybody going insane or what? Are we trying to make Sri Lanka another Saudi Arabia or what? Morons!


Have seen it, quite provocative, looks the client has bribed cops


less provocative ones have been banned. why spare this only? somebody has oiled the palms


Provocative or abusive or obscene?? I am confused.


photographer pradeep is a naughty boy, didn't he have anything else to capture?


pls publish the unedited photo


Pradeep should have looked the other way, just like us!


Man, these ppl NEED A LIFE......


with all the prevailing corruption in this country why point a finger at only a commercial image ? every banner and hoarding is erected with municipal approval. That Advertisement is gaining all the expected attention the more we comment or talk about it.


This is not that provocative compared to the things we see happening around us.... Anyway this is a bit too much.. otherwise this is ok for a change to look at, when travelling... :)


not provocative but out of focus.


Yes Quite provocative - I almost bumped on to the back of a vehicle in front of me when i was trying to figure out how the guy felt with this woman on top Ha Ha Ha.


proactive ?? this hoarding was there for more than 2 months and now only you are complaining!! There still ongoing B-grade movies showing around the island with semi nude cutouts!! aren't those proactive??


This is  where all citizens behave religiously. The hoarding may have been put by a non-sri lankan NGO member. Sri lankans will NOT get provocated. May be for foreign tourists.


MAD LANKANS... WHAT'S SO BIG ABOUT THIS.. JUST LIVE LIFE WITH PEACE AND HARMONY...


really. you must be watching quite a lot of internet...i have seen this... this is not what should be on display.






Don't worry...he will be a free man soon....


Do not worry guys, He will be out of prison on 4th February, next year.




first do ur work properly in gonverment institutions.




Dog museum???Awesome...


Cute babies!


Cuteeeeeeeeeeeeeee




 too





Anurakumara said he is not for MS. But now on his stage !




Thank U. Ladies and gentlemen. You are great.


Enough was enough for these sane people!!!


Dilhani   cannot be in this  she is tooooo sweet


We really happy about it.




Its nice to see MR is genuinely laughing. Dont we all need a break like this.


Dumminda silva is there!!


Good to see MR laughing!


I am so glad that our president can be a normal person and enjoy this... hats off to you sir




Boys! This is not a cricket match !


Well done, Ranaa!




Sri Lankan politician plays the piano day in day out to the public.


They never play the piano but sing for us during elections. After elections they do the high jump and sing the praises of their new leader and us the voter be dammed!


He is a All Rounder


Our politicians are better at singing... especially.


this is amazing... multi-talented puting.


yes mate you right but now they are considering to play against west.




nations is under a curse of leadership !


signs of end of the world


This is a curse for treasure hunting !!!


That is a very depressing sight! :'(


If this kind of disaster was eminent in Hambantota, MR would have already fixed dams, culverts or even a water salination plant to help the people of that area. People take note.


These are early Signs of  the "Anti-Christ" arrival. He is the False Messiah among people who will claim that he the GOD and every on earth should worship him. He will perform certain miracles to prove him self and relieve people hardship in exchange to follow his new world order OR other terms to worship him.


where are our Engineers!??? sitting at home in air conditioned houses!


there is no curse as such. People need to be awake!


curse for sure.. but think about it.. i want MR to be the next president too.. cuase he have already screwed up our economy, and along with his family.. they have pocketed enough money.. if SF becomes the next president, he will suffer alot.. just like how obama is facing.. Bush screw up the economy but Obama is suffering from it..


I didn't know that you could kill seashells. Sad anyways that there is a drought!




before the rain starts better to put up a jogging track around the tank...these people badly need some physical exercise...


This is the stark reality of the so called Miracle of Asia where poor people are scampering for something to eat, amidst grandiose schemes of the government to construct Ports, Airports, Cricket Grounds etc. in obscure villages to gloriy the name of the King. No wonder people are risking their lives to get out of the country in rickety boats.


No worries !! We have enough cricket grounds, Airports and Sea Ports so lets play and have a ship ride... Miracle of the world !!!!


All roads being built, lead in the opposite direction.


Well Said Sir!!!


Mr Jayathilleka well said. the are doing alot of flop projects




How about a report on UNP member victimized by the UNP leader and the leadership council.


What a valid comment particularly after the 30th of March 2014.




One should thank the JVP for coming forward to expose the great eye-wash of the government in launching this so called Geneva drama to divert attention of the public from the ever-increasing hardships due to escalating cost of living. It is very easy for the government to get together a set of people, pay them, give them a lunch and a drink and get them to shout on street corners. But that does not solve anything.


Fine art.




Good pictures. How fast technology is advancing. We are still.................hope someone will finish the sentence.


When my country can do this.....????


yes mr. batuta otherwise...


Way to go Canada,we are proud of you .


Can they make our  and milk rice as we do?


Well done Sri Lanka. Is Toronto somewhere in Sri Lanka?


Ours is a Buddhist country. We don't manufacture killer machines...........!!!!!!!!!


A sizeable section of Sri Lankans are in Canada. This is for their info.


The Bombardier q400 airplane is a passenger aircraft. In Sri Lanka we do not seem to manufacture anything. Presently even labor comes from overseas.


But u will play casino and freely allow illegal prostitution ahh.........


Daily mirror is a world class publication to publish the triumphant productionf the Q400 aircraft. It missed the point that we can make 'paper' planes . Ask M.I.A !




welcome to Sri Lanka


Both look the same in different costume., i really wonder what they eat.




Love to see our forces


perceptions


Can all these guys match one of the Original from US?


Always be prepared. do not let anybody to bother us again.


We proved we are better than US once.




What a state to live in an oil producing country. Poor leadership.




Sri lanken  on the Rode




A great first lady!


Good Work first lady.




I FEEL SORRY FOR THESE KIDS- BUT WHATS TO BE DONE- THE END OFTHE




minister ......Your people selected idiots and now suffer...its very good


Go ahead in Egypt style.




All this pampering will not do when the army has had enough of the sham!


Pls build one of those to SF... alteast....!!!


Good work...But Real Hero inside the prison cell...The one who need to be present for this ceremony....


JVP & UNP are responsible for what has happened to SF.


SF made the enviornment to live all in peace.


A small country having wiped out terrorists, locked up the head of the Army whom they boasted about for a long time as a Hero seems to be busy spending more on defence than for the communities. Are they expecting another war? Or are they gone mad?


If asked the SL public to Vote for SF again, he will loss it again per sure in a bigger margin. However, if asked the SL public to Vote that SF needs a decent house for 'house arrest and give a good living conditions' as a SL hero, the public vote to 99%, i bet you.


only SF? Thats a team work my frind.. Pls respect othrs too


and jail cell for SF!!!!


We don't say SF alone won the war, but his strategy, leadership, honesty, truthfulness won him the war, which allows both u and me to walk without any fear..




JUST.... MINISTER. NO ANY POWER....




no Chinese...???? really disappointing...


at last some rich tourists arrived


Its proud for our country but many sri lankan hope our country will own like this vessel in further its all in our politician hand Do something for your country not to fill the pocket of your all


Why dogs are silent


what a sexy dance!!




Awesome.. ha ha


Guess you have seen some other Diana or even Cathrine.


Did she meet our king during the visit to Oxford?


Lovely dress. She still looks more beautiful than Diana or Catherine.




Good to see people take use of these important infrastructure projects




Don't waste your time in queus in IOC sheads. See the bousers in background. IOC also getting the oil from CEPETCO.


Good analysis :D


This is high example of the level of corruption we have in our local economical sectors which eventually benefits interantional business....


Corrupt country and corrupt Ministers. What else you can say.


Indian conspiracy?


Somebody sure earned a tidy sum in petro dollars by importing cheap petrol. Will there be an "investigation" like the speech given by Sanga?




She gave birth to 5 children within a very short time-frame. A mothers stamina, her will to survive, her love for her children is incredible. As man, I could never comprehend that.





Congratulation..... cuties...


 to babies and parents. Govt - please help, don't play politics.


Congratulations to the mother and the father!


Why this crowd visited this mother and infants. They are very weak and need free from germs and disturbances. Leave them alone until they grow up and mother recover from her pains at least.


Good News. Congradulations. Wait and see how this family will be rich and happier after these new babies. They will certainly prosper with the help of Almighty God.


God bless you and your five stars..


Hope the Govt gives the family some kind of incentive to look after the kids.....


A good news at last....Congratulations to mother & father........


Hi Silantha,


Congrats.


Congratulations to parents and five babies. Government should help them in a tangible way as five individuals added to family at once. Government must consider this as a rare case and help them as already people in the country experiencing hardships with the current cost of living.


Congratulations  and god bless you all for better future.


What a blessing!


As usual a politician must steal the limelight.




Happy Birth day to these God's Children and May God bless them and their Parents


HAPPY BIRTH DAY 2... 5 HAPPY BIRTH DAY 2....5


May the Almighty bless your kids and you all. God is great


nice seen i was delighted


At last something nice in the news. Happy Birthday and Thank you DM.


"Happy Birth Day" to you all...sweet kids, May all mighty gives you health and happiness





Beautiful babies, The parents must be very proud.


Amazing! God bless you all five of you kids and the parents.




Weldone! good move ! remove all walls including ministers bangalows ! one law ! one country !


Good Move This gives really good look to City !!!


good works


its a good concept to take down the walls


Good move , truly appreciate it


The walls had the majestic iron gate at the Maradana Railway station was also demolished. This is national heritage and they are gone. The same with the walls at racecourse. Will the Ruwanvalisaya be safe?




This is a good show piece for the country, but dire necessity is an efficient public transport system. At present our public transport system is in a mess.




