


The money-spinning and recently overhauled Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC) domestic season 2015/16 will begin on the 20th of November with the commencement of the SLC Premier Limited Overs Tournament.



The Premier Limited-Overs tourney will run from the 20th of November to the 16th of December while the Premier T20 championship will commence on the 22nd of December with the final being scheduled to be played on the 24th of January. The most-important domestic competition, the Premier League 3 day Tournament will commence during the first weekend of December and will be played till the end of February. 



The top 14 teams have been drawn into 2 groups in each format and the first-round will be played in a league-format. The Premier League 3 day tournament will have two stages, firstly the group stage and later Cup championship and Plate championship. The limited-overs formats will see the top four teams reaching the semi-finals and the winners will fight it out in the finals.



AIA Insurance has come forward to sponsor the whole domestic season as the men behind the scenes are expecting a change of fortunes in the Sri Lankan domestic circuit after this season.



With the recent revisions by the SLC Interim Committee, a Sri Lankan first-class cricketer has the opportunity to earn up to Rs.1 Million per annum, if they play all the matches in a given season (Including the SLC Elite Championship/Zonal Tournament). 



It has been the aim of SLC over the years to professionalize cricket in order to make it a livelihood and to raise the standards of the domestic structure. This overhaul has persuaded many young and aspiring cricketers to remain in Sri Lanka and participate in the domestic competitions this season rather than travel to Australia and/or England on a regular basis, to boost their income.



The new payment structure is as follows:-



Premier Limited-Overs Tournament – Rs. 7,500/- per day

Premier League Tournament – Rs. 7,500/- per day

Premier T20 Tournament – Rs. 7,500/- per day



Recently, Sri Lanka Cricket declined to issue NOCs to as many as 17 contracted players to play in the Bangladesh Premier League (BPL) in order to protect the quality of the Premier Limited Overs tournament, and to help ensure Sri Lanka’s clubs have their best players available to them during the season.



Another special feature of this year’s domestic season is the 2nd XI tournament where the second-string teams of all 14 clubs have the opportunity to give their bench warmers some game-time in order that they may stake a claim for a spot in the top-team or at least play more cricket during the coming dry season. 



Last year’s Premier Limited Overs Championship was won by the Colts Cricket Club when they defeated Sinhalese Sports Club in the final by 56 runs. Ragama CC’s Lahiru Milantha was the tournament’s leading run scorer with 304 runs in 7 matches while left-arm seamer Nilanka Premarathne from the same team topped the wicket-taker’s list with 15 scalps. 



Sri Lanka Ports Authority Cricket Club, led by Ashan Priyanjan, lifted the biggest prize of the season, the SLC Premier League Trophy when they overcame stiff competition from the Nondescript Cricket Club in a fiery battle for the top-spot. The new star of the Sri Lankan team, Milinda Siriwardana earned his place in the national team through this competition where he amassed 1144 runs in 10 matches for Badureliya Sports Club with an impressive average of 67.29. League winners’ left-arm spinner Malinda Pushpakumara bagged the most number of wickets: 70 scalps in 10 games. 



Milinda led his little-known Badureliya outfit to their first-ever major domestic title when they upset cricketing power house Sinhalese Sports Club in the SLC Premier T20 final. Danushka Gunathilake of SSC made a staggering 295 runs from 8 games while Badureliya SC’s right-arm fast-bowler Kasun Rajitha picked up 19 wickets to become the leading wicket-taker of the tournament. 



Galle Cricket Club were promoted to the top league this year when they won the SLC Emerging Trophy last season. Sri Lanka Air Force Sports Club was relegated after a forgettable 2014/15 season. 



SSC, NCC, Tamil Union, Ragama CC, Moors and Colts have the strongest teams on paper but teams like SL Army, Badureliya and Bloomfield may pose a severe threat to the star-studded clubs in the forthcoming months.



http://thepapare.com/lucrative-slc-domestic-season-to-begin-on-november-20th/


Discuss the 50-over tournament here. We can have separate threads for Premier League and T20.


Gonna be interesting.SSC,NCC and Colts are the teams to watch out for.



Hopefully Mathews turns up for Colts


Hope they show SF and final


We are not going to go any where with this quantity over quality bs. 14 teams that's way too many. 8 teams more than enough.


They are going to have organize this with 5-6 teams






First step

http://slcricketfans.com/showthread.php?tid=1049


Well that's great news if it ends up happening. So is that just in T20 or for all formats. Cutting down to 6 or so teams in all formats should improve things heck of a lot. Short-term pain for long-term gain.


There was talk about a 4-day tournament


Fingers and toes crossed


.



http://thepapare.com/slc-premier-limited-overs-tournament-postponed-by-a-week/




Only 6 out of 42 scheduled matches 



Matches scheduled : 42

Abandoned without a ball being bowled : 14

Over reduced/DL method : 13

No result :9

Played in full : 6



Farce or what


SF 1 tomorrow. Live on Channel Eye from 10am


Gonna be boring.





Bloomfield Vs Colts


It's not televised. Typical SLC


Maybe because the tournament so far has been a farce with so many matches being washed out or interrupted by the weather.


Bloomfield batting first already in trouble at 39/3 (15)  RR of 2.60


What a spectacle this is


Why not? So no finals either


You have to ask SLC




5 wickets for Neketh Gedara Roshan Prabath Jayasuriya


This guy has come from no where and taken 13 wickets in the last 3 innings he has bowled.



Colts win the semi easily by 5 wickets with 22 overs to spare.


Imagine the foreign commies going ...in comes .....lol.....



What next? 



 ?


NCC batting first in the second semi after SSC had won the toss and put them in.


Dilhara 6 overs for 16 runs. That is rare


Shouldve let CSN be, they at least broadcasted them..


Now CSN has given up sports altogether due to the high tax imposed on them.


^ 


We had at least one channel dedicated to sports.......may be not the best.........but we had one. Political revenge put paid to that. Stupidity at the highest levels.


Good day for Dilhara




Two consecutive good days for Dilhara.......the other day he took 4/12 in a t20 match.......and today 5/30. Must be something he is eating......hopefully it's not a banned substance


SSC 4 down for 50


Edirisinghe 3 wickets. Another unknown guy like Neketh Gedara boy


SSC bundled out for 87 in 26.1 overs   Edirisinghe 6/18 in 8 overs. A slow left arm spinner from Maliyadewa, Kununegala.



Bada, he is from your territory.......same as Cheese  .



Both semis have been so one sided.


Politicking I see ....You know damn well how they formed this so called channel and how they got most contracts on every series minus the tenders.   



 !!!


Beef?


Not politicking........just stating a fact. What ever you say, nothing has been proved yet. At least we had a channel dedicated to sports......now we don't have anything.


SSC lol


it wasn't established or run according to the laws, and im sure everyone agrees.. But with regard to telecasting they did a better job than any other channel in lanka.. I got to see many domestic cricketers in action, which was nice


lol Charu are u talking about CSN? There coverage was pathetic.It took some good innings and half to have proper tv overlay at the bottom,it took like 3-4 overs to update the balls faced,their coverage was indeed pathetic.When the match is about to finish only they get the live scorecard and everything right.On the other hand I remember Channel Eye did a wonderful job.I still recall all those Premier League 50 over semi finals and finals plus school matches such as the Lemonade Cup and the Gluco Fit Sixes,were televised brilliantly.

CSN without a doubt was the worst we had in terms of live boradcasting.What are you in to lately Charu?




With CSN we had a dedicated sports channel, certainly not up to standards we expected but we still had something. Channel Eye was good but there were so many commercials interrupting the live telecast. We got to see so many 5 ball overs with the last ball of an over or the first ball of an over being interrupted by ads. Now after much hype that semi's and final of the Premier L/O tournament will be telecast.....we get nothing. CSN would have given at least something.


Should have had the final on Sunday. Nonsense scheduling thanks to 3 tournaments running


I don't think this was an issue with TV channels. Probably it's SLC decided against it. They have to make the first arrangements.


Yeah, probably due to this


I feel its because of the fact that the finals are coincided with the 3rd ODI


The L/O final is today and the 3rd ODI is tomorrow....so that is definitely not a factor.


http://www.srilankacricket.lk/wp-content/uploads/2015/12/The-battle-for-glory.jpg



This says the final will be telecast live on .


sanity prevails alas!


Excited to see  Roshan Prabath Jayasuriya!


Good move to play the final on Wednesday instead of Sunday. Massive crowd there




Match shown live on Channel Eye.........NCC batting first 42/0 in 5 overs.


I see 3-4 dogs watching the final


Dickwella looks like a serious playa...









when he's facing 125kph bowlers


I guess the two legged variety are watching it at home


Only jobless people like me. Would have got a few people in on Sunday


Dilruwan turned 2 balls. Dickwella stumped and Tharanga bowled lol


Dilly bowled well


4 down. Ordinary batsmen


Some good hits by Maharoof


6 wickets for Dilruwan




Hat trick for Maha in the 1 st over.


NCC win the final beating Colts by 77 runs.


Glad to see no wickets for Kaushal and some pacies taking wickets.



Good win for NCC.



looks like Maha had an injutry?


Hamstring, will be out for a few weeks


Injury has been a problem with Maharoof......one reason he has been left out for a long time.


Full final for those who couldn't watch -




http://www.espncricinfo.com/premier-limited-over-tournament-2015-16/content/story/942117.html








is it the AIA tournament that was postponed? so i guess players will miss even less due to BPL



diluting the comp..



 .



 .


Yeah


AIA tournament was postponed only by a week....will start on the 27th with the final to be played on Dec 30th. BPL will start tomorrow (22nd) and the final will be played on Dec 15th.


Get lost men.  .Try grab a proper journalism job like Andrew or Dilz.You are a flop :P


I'm a professional not some Arts degree poofta like them 



Why don't you do some calculus cuz that will further your goal to be a Ceo lol


Guys, this is a player to watch!! 

http://www.espncricinfo.com/srilanka/content/player/429949.html

Pabasara waduge. Captained the Tamil union team in the under 23 tournament and was the second highest scorer of that tournament. Should have easily been the highest scorer if not for the rain. Twice or thrice not outs. Opening bat. Seen him bat from the school days. Developed a lot now. He is the player in the middle of this picture.




The tournament is scheduled to get off the ground today with a match between CCC and Ports Authority. CCC have won the toss but scores are not available yet.


Club cricket captains for 2015/16 season



Army SC – Manjula De Zoysa

Colts CC – Angelo Mathews 

CCC – Sachith Pathirana

Bloomfield C & AC – Dilshan Munaweera

NCC – Farveez Maharoof

SSC – Dhammika Prasad

Chilaw Marians CC – Bhanuka Rajapakse

Ragama CC – Lahiru Thirimanne

Baduruliya CC – Milinda Siriwardana

Sri Lanka Ports Authority SC – Ashan Priyanjan

Moors SC – Dilhara Lokuhettige

Galle CC – Suraj Randiv

Tamil Union C & AC – Suranga Lakmal

Saracens SC – Harsha Cooray



http://thepapare.com/know-your-club-cricket-captains-for-201516-season/


Bhanuka in Chillaw Marians now.. and the captain as well.. might actually be the change he needed especially with the extras responsibility.


Hope the extra responsibilities will make Bhanuka more committed to the game.


Thilina Thushara making a come back?? ........did he play last season?? Playing for CCC, had bowled his full quota of 10 overs for 35 runs and a wicket. Sandakan also had decent figures for a leggie.


very good. you will see how many wickets he is going to take. he is a very handy medium pacer.


Very interesting to see Lakmal and Prasad as captains.


Nothing against Banuka, but what has he done to deserve the captaincy of Marians?


Nothing, he played for Colts last season


good looks,come from a well to do family 

he is from Royal,sint that enuf?




May be he had a deal with them.


Bhanukas used to be our best young batting  talent,started off at SSC then Colts and now Marians and is still 24


They are trying different things to make him click I guess



