



See world media today. World is heavily condemning Indian assault on Muslims including this. Much mightier Hitler had also ignored everyone. 

Ended up paying the ultimate price.


@Fastrack,  keep crying


Rumour mongers, fake news spreaders are dangerous during crisis. They could possibly incite violence, law and order problems.


Rule of law will be implemented and does not matter it is women or journalist.


India should also enforce PREMA type of law in India. There is too much of press freedom in India, even more than western countries. In fact there are no checks in place, at least there shd be to verify the news. So many FAKE news are being spread now a days.


Time has come to take some precautionary action before chaos.


@Daanish,  Take her to Great place Pakistan and let her live Happy ever after.


The so called suppression can be assessed, the way she is allowed to air her views inspire of police case. Do not bluff, world knows.  Anybody in Pakistan having such freedom of expression.?


it is very appropriate to arrest any one promoting fake news.


This is how a dictator country behaves and act. No difference between North Korea and India of today. What happened to Gandhi's India? Modi has been exposed - he is not a democratic leader but a dictator bent on destroying any opposition to his rule.


Act harsh on fake news spreaders.


@bhaRAT©,  a quick google search will prove you wrong. Top four are China,Turkey ,Saudi and Egypt.


One last question : Why are we so carried away with such an insignificant news ?


@bhaRAT©,  you remember Daniel pearl,right.


We should help them by taking them as refugees


She is in custody for posting truth. We know that.


@Imtiaz Hunzai (Berlin),  downfall when the worry is begging for medicine from India ..... it’s downfall of China and it’s Allies from here on


Peace will never return unless these journalists do not take their responsibility.


@Ajay,  “ You cannot wear mask of journalism and act as anti national activity.”



Hey Ajay, you Indians are fast exposing yourselves as low, petty and bigoted bunch of cowards. Crawl out from under the rock and you will see the reality that international and independent journalists, TV crews, diplomats etc. are not permitted to go into Kashmir. It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to figure out that you are hiding something.


@Fastrack, take a break and take care of your mental health.


Salute and tribute to the fearless, candid, frank and outspoken freelance photojournalist Masrat Zehra, for calling a spade a spade, telling the truth and using her universal human right of freedom of speech, free press, freedom of thought and freedom of choice to write, record and say what she sees on the ground in the India-attacked, India-invaded, India-held, India-occupied, India-abused and India-annexed Jammu and Kashmir.


@Only Loans, let's hope the separatist will accept your offer to take them as refugees. Pakistan can then get more aid from UN refugee commission. Questions is will they agree knowing the situation in Pakistan.


@Ajay, millions of Muslims are oppressed in India, keep denying basic human rights to people and they will fight for their rights.


@Daanish Enjoy your freedom.


@Daanish,  check at your location first


If you  think you think, they did something illegal then indict them and bring it to court. There needs to be transparency. I don't like labelling people terrorists. This is not constructive but reeks of censorship or some kind.


@sidhu,  press needs to be free for a society to have transparency and accountability especially as a democracy. PEMRA is biased censorship. That is not the right way to go.


The first casualty of a conflict is the truth ....because it is hard to swallow by the powerful aggressor.


Brave lady showing true face of India and so called largest democracy can’t take it!


@Ratan   

You Hindus need to leave their country.


If journalist is called to police station then it does mean that people are not in detention.. they are allowed to walk freely and go to courts and police stations contrary to Pakistan views


Right to Free Press comes with riders. you cannot do your journalism endangering law and order. With Responsibility comes Accountability


@Imtiaz Hunzai (Berlin),  how come living in Berlin you have such poor English. Can't even make a simple sentence or spell correctly. How did you get there. As a refugee from Pakistan. If yes why.




In the middle of the ever growing and vastly expanding coronavirus pandemic, now they will think at least twice before boarding a cruise ship.




Nothing has changed for these guys, sad and tragic.

But then most of them pride in staying in 7th century, so not surprised.


Which is worse, Taliban or Coronavirus ?


Taliban job, just attack & kill.


Peace was never in their dictionary of Taliban.




Amidst the ever growing and rapidly expanding coronavirus pandemic, it's better safe than sorry.




I like Islamabad high Court decision. We always hear that politicians, Ministers and high ups should be punished as they have done corruption and made money. Very true anyone who has done fraud should be punished. But at the same time professionals like accountant, lawyers, bankers etc. who shows the way of corruption to important personalities must also be punished as they have committed the same crime. It was because of these people important personalities are able to commit crime. For their small amount of money they persuade top personalities to make money by illegitimate means.




Peace of advice: Whatever you are doing, do not interfere in internal matters of Afghanistan. Do not repeat the past mistakes. Let Afghans stand and run their country on their own.


Why Qureshi is talking to world leaders on topics that are not important at the moment? Covid-19 should be his focus all the time right now !


Good that Quereshi is engaged in some genuine work


It happened all after Afghan President congratulated Modi for sincere help in these tough times


That is very nice if bilateral trade with Afghanistan is enhanced. Essential items must be sent from here but vigilance must be improved. More check and balances needed. It is in our interest that essential items in Afghanistan must be available otherwise influx of Afghan refugees will start coming to our country


Kabul has realized Indian plan of using it like latex and ditching like they ditched Najib. 

Excellent work Pakistan.


Superb work IK, Qureshi and Co.

Another sad morning for the thousands of haters reading this.


IK must contribute to our Afghan brothers some aid that we already got.


India's frustration with Qureshi is understandable. He lets no Modi evil plan succeed.


@Pakistani,  



That's why Qureshi has not held SAARC health ministers' meeting that he has been talking about for some time now. But without wasting time Modi held 2 SAARC meetings on Covid with or without Pakistan.


There is nothing to talk or boost as long the greatest CoronaVirus is around.



Coronavirus issues must be fixed first before boosting any kinda trade or business.


Coming soon, FO statement on how finally someone picked up the phone at the other end due to ‘great diplomacy’!


It seems he is getting much bored after lockdown, PUBG is also good option.


Even in the midst of the ever growing and vastly expanding coronavirus pandemic, friends are transient and temporary whereas neighbours are forever.




Inadequate actions of IK to contain Covid-19 are coming to haunt now.. Bad strategies will have bad consequences..


Blame IK and his poor planning...


The nation stands determined and together with its leader like it has done against any recent challenge. Must keep trying to save lives.


Let's hope rise in Corona cases has touched it's peak and curve is going to flatten. But all indications are that it will keep rising till May. We have limited capabilities of medical care. I like Dr. Yasmeen statement that best efforts are made to speed up the recovery of current patient because that will make us possible to accommodate influx of new patient.


@Fastrack,  



"The nation stands determined and together with its leader like it has done against any recent challenge. Must keep trying to save lives."



While precious human lives are being lost, is that all you can say in defense of IK and his pathetic Covid-19 handling?


@Justice,  

Look at the sad Indian trying to seek happiness in human tragedy which you yourself are suffering more. Then you cry when hate is responded with hate.


This is because of IK’s insistence to end the lock down and  insistence to open the mosques to general public. They spoiled the lockdown MAS was trying to implement.


All the best to salvage the situation.


It’s beyond repair because of incompetent gov. and , get ready for the worst.


This is inevitable....government caved in to the demand of mullahs......it will be nice to report how many patients got affected due to mass gathering encouraged by mullahs....


Not started yet, see after 10 days. You will find it difficult to hide the numbers.


Pakistan is on road to discover vaccine through Getz labs and Noble prize in medicine.


Covid Situation in Pakistan is already unmanageable. Because of mass gatherings, almost 70-80 percent population would have been affected. Situation would be 50 times worst than USA. Better be prepared for the worst. Looks already in 3rd phase of transmission. The more tests conducted the more positive cases come out. Great gift from China to Pakistan which cannot be forgotten in the lifetime.






It shows gov. cares about poor and also in a very transparent way. Keep up the good work!!


Imran Khan has appointed some really hard working and professionally sound experts. The results are showing.


By the time Government gets its act together, many people would have starved to death.


What a drama. Hope poor people don't get fooled.


@Ding Dong,  which country do you live that it looks like your drama. Come back from Canada USA or get out from town DHA to witness


@Ding Dong,  That's not a drama but many have received the emergency support by the Government, which is state of the art program by any Government in the history of country.


A poor lady in our area applied for  emergency cash program and promptly got a reply to collect the amount.

For last 7 days she has been running around with no payment. This is happening in Islamabad. There is no way you can contact and complain to  program.


IK still doing "photo op" using these programs for poor during middle of Covid-19?


@Ding Dong,  one cannot satisfy everybody there were few asking for details and now calling it a drama.


First program of this type launched after 72 years of creation of Pakistan. 

Corrupt people call it a drama without any shame.




Pakistan should refuse to bring in any overseas Pakistanis at this time. Every patriotic Pakistani should stay where they are.


Feather in FO's cap again?


Bring back all our people


300+ Pakistani panicked students stranded in Bangladesh registered for repatriation.


OK. Bring them back home quickly. Outcome matters, not just the PR talks for camera. Argh !!


Qureshi, we are still waiting for the SAARC health ministers' call that you were talking about for months now.


IK will bring them home before moon sighting. Just wait and watch. Kudos to our leader


And when are you bringing them back?


East or west SMQ is the best. PM in waiting!


Government should establish a large quarantine facility in a dry and very hot and sparsely populated area hostile to the virus, possibly in Baluchistan, to accommodate and keep the large number of incoming workers.


This is the most irresponsible govt in the countries history.


Why registration, just check the passport or other documents.


@Fastrack,  where is the money?




Excellent Pakistan. Slow and steady.




Habib bank has not compensated its customers who have lost money in online/ATM frauds despite being declaring hefty profit every quarter. Someone should make it and other banks to compensate such customers, there is no law or authority in this country who would protect people from discrimination by these money-making institutions


Lets see next qt.


Took full advantage of high mark up rates and invested in "T" bills and PIB. No default. Investment in these Instrument is neat and clean.




