


Hey just drove my car home from the showroom, anyone has any questions, he is welcome to ask..



tell us aboutsuspensions and comfort...number one question....


Well, i have only driven on the ride back from the showroom, and coming from altis i must say the suspension is a little stiff, but still it does not effect the comfort level too much.


How is the drive


 Congratulations 
Stay safe.


Drive is good, cvt feels a little sluggish in D , but i think its designed that way, but shifting to S makes the drive and feel much more enjoyable


Its giving me 12 as per the car computer, but its only driven 50 kms yet so can't get an accurate figure


Thank you so muxh


M.A congrulations
This color suits brv
How much waiting time on brv now  a days ?


 and congratulations! Drive safely and enjoy. Is there an Eco Mode? If Eco Mode is 'on' then the acceleration will be sluggish. Hope your BR-V gives you years of faithful service


First of all congratulations for the new car.  Good to see you buying it in color other than white.  I don't know why people here in pakistan are so much inclined towards white.  They have an illogical and weird psychic here that white color sells fast.  If you ask me i don't even consider white as a COLOR.


This post was flagged by the community and is temporarily hidden.


On a lighter note, scientifically, black is no colour as it absorbs all light and appears black. White is however a combination of all colours


Yeah that's true if you talk about science but i am sure that neither people here in pakistan nor their decisions in choosing cars have anything to do with SCIENCE


Why a BR-V? - I'm just curious to know and  congrats!


Looking nice....drive save and check air pressure in all tyres new cars comes with high pressure from factory. It will increase comfort more.


Masha Allah congrats bro


Congrats. Enjoy the ride.


Congratulations. Like the color. Enjoy ur new car.


No waiting time brother


There is no eco mode , however there is an eco bulb which lights up when i drive economically


Thank you, yeah its a common misinterpretation, mostly because investors buy white color.


 , and i have large family so brv suits my needs


Thank you .


Thank you, and i did check the tyre pressures and adjusted them.


Because i have a large family, and i test drove it and found that it really is a good car, despite many of the negative reviews, which are mostly from the people who have never driven it.


Thank you.


Thank you, yeah i thought this color looks the best.


This post was flagged by the community and is temporarily hidden.


.


 I also like this car  

please post some more pictures, interior / exterior , day / night. 

Oh, and please park it inside the gate.  ...


Congratulations on your purchase. Initial customers had certain observations like road noise , no illumination in gear shift lever etc. Have these observation been addressed by Honda Atlas in last one year.


Thank you , and more pics coming soon.



The road noise is not that much, but the rear ac vents do make a lot of noise when they are on the highest setting.
And the gear shift illumination is not that big of a problem as i can see the the gear i am currently in , in the cluster.
However they should put a light there.


Mubarak ho .
I would suggest to get the car insured.


. 

Lovely car and beautiful color.  my future car - to have a SUV look, good ground clearance, below 1500 CC,  reasonable price and to mention have a family of 6.

Drive safe. May Allah bless you.

Regards


Because white is the easiest to maintain as compared to other colors, especially, black color is a nightmare. Moreover, in case of minor touch-ups, color matching is a big problem for other colors


Agree with you, the atmosphere in Pakistan is very dusty, therefore this dust becomes much more visible on dark colors due to the lighter color of the dust layer. Hence, white and lighter colors are better suited for Pakistan. Additionally, dark colors absorb heat and the car gets hotter.


Yeah thats true, but white color in br-v looks ugly and pretentious imo.


Yeah, i will as soon as the papers arrive


Its the best car for 5-6 people in an affordable price.





Some interior pics


Bro i am having so door gasket rubber noise
Are you having Same issue,?
Got my door rubber replaced under warranty but still no relief


No not yet, but its only been a week since i bought it


....


Lovely car .  How is drive and pick? It has optimal power or does it lacks sometimes?


 best of luck.. enjoy the high ride... 
My self personally drove friends BRV on rough road & literally surprised by overall performance.
Drive carefully


The drive is smooth and it feels solid over rough road. The pick is awesome in S mode, better than the altis 1.6. however the reaction is a bit delayed due to the rubber band effect of cvt. The car has still not breaken in so i am driving carefully as of yet.


Yeah it does excel over the local sedans on rough roads, and thank you for your kind thoughts


Is the brv with cvt transmission automatic ? Have just enetered the automobile landscape and looking to buy my first car . I have driven my father car for two years but it is time for me to buy my own car now


Yes the brv does come with cvt automatic transmission.


If you need any more help regarding brv feel free to contact me.


This post was flagged by the community and is temporarily hidden.


  (more pics  plz : )


Can you please show the pic of the rear most seats? Are they the bench type? And congratulations on having a wonderful car.


, looks great.

A very practical car for markets like Pakistan where people can't afford upper tier SUV's.
I hope they add a better engine to next generation of this vehicle, congrats on your purchase.


Thank you, yes they are bench type but they are reclining so you can adjust them the way you like. 
IMG_20180511_205939.jpg3264x1840 3.2 MB


You mean we will be getting fuel as per international standards? Don’t know about that. But as @Spano always says, that car manufacturers care about the number of units sold, so from that perspective, Honda Atlas is selling lots of Oriels. Most of the people who were going to buy the Civic will buy it regardless of the fact that the only option right now is 1.8L
But I have a feeling the BR-V is going to be loved in numbers by customers in times to come. Just like the City


Thank you so much.


Perhaps that will be the case, br-v is a pretty good vehicle , most of the people who criticize it have never driven it in real life.


You're welcome.


It's supposed to be hard bro, how else do you expect a crossover to seat 7 people along with luggage?


That stiff suspension results in excellent grip & handling for a car with that height, so you can have either one of these for a MPV/crossover at this price point. Want something softer than maybe go for avanza or apv?


Can you please confirm if the DRLs switch on automatically or do you have to turn them on? I haven't seen any BRV with DRLs on during the day.


No drl in brv just parking light switch which swithes on back lights as well


Drls don't switch on automatically, you have to manually turn them on through the parking light switch, also they are not that bright so you might jot have noticed.


are you using stock tires or did you replace them?
hows the driving experience on stock/upgraded tyres?


I replaced the original with Michelin 215/55/16 and the performance is fantastic....


Congrats! I being a BR-V owner myself would like to tell you that don't listen to people who say  People who criticize haven't driven or kept one.


Hello guys, so I just drove a BRV-S. Planning on buying one. Main concern for me was a lot of road noise. I would like feedback from people who have changed the stock tires to better ones and how much it improved the road noise. for reference my everyday car since past 4 years is a Honda City 2015 with Yoko Advan DB so my standard of road noise comes from there.


Hello

i purchased brv manual. I did not change the tires as the salesman told me that the original ones were fine.

i put rexene covering on the carpet, and then heavy mats and also heavy mat brv genuine as sold by them in the trunk. But noise is still there. I have heard that you have to cover the doors with special matting to reduce the noise.

by the way when driving at 120 the noise of the engine is quite a bit at 3100 rpm and only when I use the 6th gear does the engine noise go down at 2600 rpm.
anyway the only problem i have in brv is while reversing even with back camera.

my car doesn't have the original alloy rims and I also haven't installed them as they are heavier than the simple ones. The lighter your rims and tyres are the better the car will behave and you will get better mileage also

Also there isnt much space in the wheel area so it is better to stick to the original size


I purchase fog lights from honda and had it installed. There is already a switch in the normal light stalk for it


Hi All,

I live in Lahore and have been using 1000 CC hatchbacks since 2007 including Suzuki Khyber 1997, Toyota Vitz 2004 and currently Daihatsu Boon 2013. As my family needs are growing although we are 5 members (two adults and 3 kids i.e. 9 to 14 years) but many times I have additional 1-2 passengers with me which I have been somehow accommodating in Daihatsu Boon (thanks to front sofa seat ) but now I think its time to consider a bigger car and first option comes to my mind is Honda BR-V.

I need the new car to very well serve the following needs:


I have been used to automatic / CVT transmission so will stick to it
I have always been inclined towards the cool features in the cars
I regularly visit northern areas with family mostly 5 family members but sometime 1-2 additional passengers. I have been used to drive 1000 CC in northern areas and it has been a pain while climbing steep hills
I keep exploring remote destinations in Pakistan but 1000 CC has its limits in terms of power, luggage, comfort for accompanying passengers etc.
I will keep my Daihatsu Boon for local city movement and use new car mostly when there are more passengers, more luggage or when going out of Lahore
I can't exceed my budget from 3.5 million


What I am looking for from the respected group members is:


Does Honda BR-V iVTEC S variant is the right car for the above needs? especially comfort and performance on long distances and hilly areas with 5-7 average passengers?
I will go for a brand new car (2021 model) so what is the delivery time in Lahore?
Is it worth waiting for some more time because new cars are entering Pakistani market but I am unsure will there be a bigger car in the similar price range?
What additional amount needs to be spent on the brand new car to get best out of it? for example changing tires?
What is best dealership in Lahore especially for after sale services?


I heard that there are Facebook and Whats App groups for Honda BR-V so can someone please share their links as well.

Thanks in advance for your help in this regard


Were you able to make the decision then?


Yes @mashriqain I booked Honda BR-V (S) in last week of March 2021 and delivery is expected in the last week of April 2021



