


Will now be buying British Sugar. Boycott Tate and Lyle.




Why is it that when people are promoted up the ladder, they lose sight of what the job entails?


We need to see those at the top of Highways England, and possibly Transport Ministers, prosecuted under health and safety duty of care laws for their blind adoption of smart motorways that have resulted in so many needless deaths.


@Ian Stewart Maybe it is not smart motorways that are the problem, but not very smart drivers.


Highways England is a quango, accountable to no one. Mr Shapps is a government minister, accountable to the electorate. There is no debate here, Highways England must take note of what the minister says.


Motorway recovery vehicles - especially where there is no hard shoulder - are emergency vehicles, like ambulances. If they had, as well as the current orange ones for normal circumstances, blue flashing lights for use when they were blocking a lane it would be helpful.

The one thing which always slows traffic is the sight of a blue light ahead!


Experiments show that yellow or amber, especially when moving (rotating) is the most prominent, eye catching colour, and therefore the safest.

But hey, that is just some boring facts, which are highly irrelevant in this age.


@David Hussell But it’s so commonly used now that research also shows that these are the most ignored safety warnings. You didn’t mention that.


Whether the lights are red or amber really isn't going to make any difference, this is a focus on the insignificant. I have concerns that too many, too bright, lights actually cause so much dazzle that approaching drivers can't clearly see the road ahead and the safe lane to align with. This also happens when the lighting for road works is very bright and faces oncoming traffic, and also excessive use of flashing lights on maintenance vehicles that are not on the open lanes of a motorway at all. Smart motorways are intrinsically dangerous and tinkering with red lights is window dressing.


One year. One whole year for another bunch of highly paid numpties working from home to fudge the figures (again) and declare so called "smart" but actually KILLER motorways safe and a resounding success, despite the evidence to the contrary and the terrible human death toll. To break down on one of these is terrifying; watching a 40 ton truck thundering towards you at 60 mph whilst you cant escape is the worst possible nightmare. So I suggest that everyone involved in this snail's pace enquiry should try it for 10 minutes - with their kids strapped into the back, closest to the oncoming truck- and then see how they feel about it.
Utter disgrace. Theres so much shouting about the shortcomings of the Grenfell building and yet the clients and designers of smart motorways are allowed to continue with this travesty every day.


@A Sayer 
Excellent comment


@Stewart Hussey @A Sayer Thank you. Have a good day!


TBH roads are fine in this country it’s just some of the drivers who use them that are dangerous. On the other hand smart motorways are just out and out dangerous, just a penny pinching exercise by government who don’t care less about individuals.


The problem isn't smart motorways. It's dumb drivers. The standard of driving in this country is appalling!
Everyone should be forced to retake their driving test every five years; every two years for over 60s.


@Ed ward
Er.... Every YEAR for the under 21's please. They're the dangerous ones, rarely the over 60's.


@Ed ward It doesnt matter how dumb or smart a driver is ,  finding a broken down  vehicle in front of you on the inside lane possibly unlit, in the dark, on an unlit section of smart motorway such as SE corner of the  M25, is likely to end very badly!
I remember this section first opening a few years ago and I was absolutely dumbstruck when I realized that after months of construction and millions of pounds spent installing infrastructure, they hadnt bothered to install street lighting!
Deadly combo!


@Joe Paul @Ed ward

Street lights !

Are you mad ?

Those are illegal now because of global warming !

Do try to keep up ......with these imaginary problems.


If a driver isn't concentrating on the road the colour of the light is irrelevant.
Also being red green colour blind I see little difference between red and amber lights.


Tip: avoid Grovehill Junction in Beverley Yorkshire. There’s 42 sets of traffic lights.


Wait until a school minibus is cleaned up before any action.


@Anthony Plowright Amazing that their risk scenarios haven’t highlighted this about a bus with kids getting hit.....


Its ridiculous, isn't it? Every motorist knows these smart motorways are dangerous, but a few people who nobody ever elected get to say they will continue, while our elected representative, who is supposed to be looking out for us, defers to them. 

They are dangerous. They will never be safe. On behalf of every motorist who has to risk his life using one of these roads, please get rid of them.


@Tomlington Graves Ah the same technique they use to shape their Covid policy! Then the axe falls on the advisors, scientists etc, when the politicians realise theyve got it wrong. Again


FFS scrap smart motorways. 

If they want the red lights, just give them the red lights.

Don't get bogged down in this cr*p. It's obvious that smart motorways are lethal, so scrap them.

What's the point of being a minister if you cannot do at least one thing to make people's lives a little better?


Flashing lights, of any colour, aren't the problem. The lack of a safe space when vehicles are rolling at 70mph is. Life is more important than light bulbs - but it's the colour of the bulbs that will preoccupy the suits.


Highways England (HE) expressed concern that use of red flashing lights on roadside recovery vehicles could lead to a dilution of their effectiveness and hence increased risk to HE Traffic Officers in their role while controlling live flows.

Flashing amber lights on broken down vehicles don't seem to deter following vehicles from crashing into them, so have their use also been 'diluted'?


@Aberrant Apostrophe Yes; usually by the vehicles themselves. We are talking about the beacons fitted to recovery vehicles by the way not hazard warning lights on cars.

Firstly, I should say that I'm a lorry driver. If I pick up a load of, say, concrete blocks, provided it's not an abnormal load then I don't drive along with flashing beacons on. However, if an AA or RAC recovery lorry is driving down the road with a broken-down car on the back,  all the lights are flashing. Yet the lorry is effectively just carrying a load the same as I am, so what's the point of the beacons? They're only necessary when he's actually on the hard shoulder picking up the broken down car.

Sorry this is laboured, but the point I'm trying to make is that there are so many vehicles on motorways with these beacons on unnecessarily that other drivers get blase about them and think there's no hazard.


Grant Shapps should go! he has done nothing but suggest controversial and in some case impossible policies. 
If Smart Motorways is the only solution to congested motorways then Grant Shapps needs to go.
He has also promoted the use of Vaccine Passports for air travel without giving any thought or consideration to people that have not or cannot be vaccinated against Covid 19. In the case of Smart Motorways he has ignored the dangers to which road users are now faced with the introduction of a HOT Hard-shoulder.
He clearly has scant regard for the British public so he must go!


It is all about the deficiencies of "smart" motorways and not a matter of lights.
As other posters have said, below, they should be scraped.
Red lights are anyway not as visible of bright amber lights.


'Smart' motorways should be scrapped immediately.  Shapps should be fired and the Department of Transport / Highways England prosecuted for manslaughter.


For Smart Motors read Dumb Motorways.
For Highways England read foolhardy if not far worse.


Impose the red lights, return the hard shoulder by scrapping smart motorways, scrap Highways England and facilitate legal action for corporate manslaughter.




It will be in Manchester where GCHQ is obviously.


Must be the only one read this. A good project and deserves more credit than a numpty like me.




Ignored = covered up. And the Uk failed to learn from SARS or China’s early Covid experience because the U.K’s leadership suffered from the comorbidity “not invented here syndrome.”
When will the U.K. actually bother to learn the lessons it keeps getting taught. Its beloved Cpt. Tom (RIP) died from a nosocomial infection. The terrible irony!
And a lockdown has probably had no positive impact on such or care home infections.


Plague hospitals are the answer. The Victorians had them. Simple, all infected people are sent to a subset of hospitals where they receieve treatment. These are not the Nightingale hospitals, they lack the facilities for complex diseases. They need to be entire General Hospitals. 

This needs organisational flexibility. Staff need to move between hospitals. Existing systems need changing. The NHS is utterly useless at this. That is the reform needed.


My dad had been shielding since March 2020, caught Covid in December on a visit to hospital for chemo therapy and died on 18 January. Protect the NHS? How about they protect us?


Obvious. Airless places. Have even seen carpeted wards.


It makes sense. It's the old and sick that are likely to have to visit hospital and these are the most likely to have the worst downsides from having Covid. Since these same hospitals are home to many Covid patients then going to hospital poses a risk of catching Covid.


It is in the text, but the headline does mislead.

"Researchers from Public Health Scotland's Covid-19 Health Protection Study Group, looked at all Scottish coronavirus cases reported outside of care homes between March 2020 and January 28, 2021."

It is the devolved Scottish Government that is responsible.


NHS=death.


Have something wrong with you other than covid, require a hospital stay overnight, and "catch" the Chinese flu.

SAVE the NHS my backside.


And Captain Tom was the most high profile victim of our useless NHS.


@Michael West Maybe & maybe not? Don't forget he had just had the vaccine!!!!!!!  Makes you wonder....


So the NHS didn't save us despite our sacrifices to save it.
They had a problem with infection, ie MRSA, before this.
Cleaners from third world countries and no matrons is probably the cause.


@Michael West . Absolutely if only English cleaners were allowed in our hospitals no one would have caught Covid in hospital. Goes without saying.


@hoarse whisperer @Michael West Unlike you, HW, I use my own name. What a hateful, racist comment. If we still had MATRONS in charge of the wards, cleaning would be more effective. It's not the birthplace of the cleaners, it's the misplaced use of outside agencies which causes the problem.  And the underfunding for years of the NHS.  I'd like to know what's going to happen to the Nightingale Hospitals.  Will they be delivered to the NHS or to the private sector?


This, particularly if a similar position exists across the whole of the UK is absolutely scandalous.
We have had our freedoms and human rights taken away for 12 months with the exhortation "Stay at Home, Protect the NHS, Save Lives", whilst all that time it seems that the NHS, despite the best efforts of its frontline staff, has been failing in its primary duty, i.e. to protect those under its care.
Quite clearly the organisation is no longer fit for purpose and needs major reform. The necessary funding needs to be made available since the first duty of any Government is to protect its citizens. If other projects, e.g. HS2, need to be cancelled or postponed, then so be it.
And perhaps the PM could cancel the refurbishment of 10 Downing Street. No doubt the next occupant will change it again anyway - the rate this is going that may be a lot sooner than he anticipates.


My brother was in and out of hospital for several months last year while isolating at home in between. He finally caught covid on his 4th visit to hospital. He was in a ward with 5 other people, all with serious heart problems when one man tested positive for covid. That is potentially 5 people leaving hospital with the virus that went in without it. My brother passed away 2 weeks later but I have no idea what happened to the others from his ward.



