


Details are here

https://www.essexcricket.org.uk/2020/05/26/members-forum-date-announced-agm-update/


I hope to be there and hope to see some of you. You can submit questions ...


Perhaps someone could kindly enquire as to what has happened to the yearbook? Thank you


Does anyone have the link?


I've had an e-mail with a link to follow - then I need to enter my name, e-mail and membership number to get the actual link.

The e-mail says the session will go on the website.


So why the secrecy for the session?! (rhetorical question!) 

Not as if anything important will be announced?

Will be interesting to know how much money the club lost last year. Very concerned about the financial performance of the club. I see Slurry made a £6m profit last year and Lanky also made big profits. Essex need to act fast or they will be left far behind.


No idea - I now have my own personalised link to the session at 6pm.

It will go on the website and we'll know if it's been edited. I guess they want to make sure only Members 'attend'.

Nat - have you asked that question?


Very much the same info has available in the members cricket magazine .
Everything on hold until date for resumption. Possible packages regards regarding refunds .

Get extra 1m from ECB from last season World Cup plus extra from prize money hence 750k profit.
No debt at present 2m in investments/ reserves .
45% income for this season comes from ECB . 

If possible 6 game Championship - will have to go wth it.
If possible regional T20 might have 500 attendance but with members ballot priority .

Ground developments on hold.
New floodlights complete.
Only handrails to complete Riverside entrance.
Yearbook at printers and will be mailed out to members.
Colchester Festival - never say never but unlikely due to money .


Thanks Bewildered for the interesting summary.


Ground re-development has got to happen...soon. come on chaps...hands in pockets. There must be some high rollers frequenting this forum.


From what John Faragher it seems that we are waiting for the ECB to come up with some cash which they obviously aren't going to do in the present state of affairs. I would have been interested to see what his answer would have been to the member who asked why we didn't reconsider our "no debt" policy when interest rates are so low.


There was talk of a regional red ball competition rather than an official championship.

Anyway if its going on the website you can all watch it!


Apologies everyone for the briefness, but tried to just get the key points .

Line went wobbly for a few minutes, but think got the end of discussion regards Somerset points deduction being forwarded to next season rather than applied to this seasons sanitised version of   A championship rather than The Championship . Can anyone confirm ? 

Concerns for players welfare/ wellbeing - Players are not in practice but all in contact.

Generally a feeling of togetherness that we are all in this situation . Everyone doing there  utmost for the good of the club. Full credit to ALL for the online experience, perhaps it might become a regular feature for those unable to attend .


Apparently the Chairman made the point abut the Somerset points deduction being applied to 2021 rather than 2020 at a Chairman's meeting this week. He reported a degree of Essex envy - something to do with us having no debt and not having diversified into leisure and hospitality businesses that are now mothballed.

Scary stuff about finance - a £750k profit last year, driven by £1m from the ECB as a result of a good world cup; unexpected prize money; and windfall profits on investments.

All of of that slammed into reverse this year with no cash coming in. Some members have asked how they can donate/help financially. 

The club are starting to look at socially distanced crowds late season and would prioritise members for this (maybe some sort of ballot for a ticket). They expect there will be some cricket in August and September. If we start in August it will be 5 red ball games and some sort of final on a regional basis plus T20 games. If it starts in September just T20. Playing in early October is on the table. 

Unsurprisingly the club is also thinking through what 2021 may look like. I suppose if this virus is still swirling about in the population next year, and the medical people I have spoken to reckon it will be, we're looking at behind closed doors/skeleton crowds for a while.

As an aside this is the first members' forum I have attended. As I don't live in Chelmsford and work in London weekday meetings just don't work for me. A combination of working from home and zoom meant I could join and I'd advocate this approach going forward, let's have this as the new normal.


I think the point was made by John F that the 12 point deduction should be rolled forward to next season - I don't think any ECB decision has been made.

I thought it worked well as you could hear the questions and answers - no barracking from drunk Surrey members we got one year. Additional questions could be asked via the Q & A button and you could read those. It was a webinar rather than a Zoom meeting ie only the panel were visible and they could not see us.

Ronnie was asked to convey good wishes to the team and seemed genuinely touched that people wanted to make sure the club had the money it needed e.g by possible crowd funding.

Clarity of who the ECB were giving money to and why was being pursued - Essex must not be penalised because our finances are in good order.




I watched, too. Worked well, nothing to add by way of report. 

Given the situation i'm inclined to think that Somerset's minus 12 should be forgivn and forgotten.


Really?
The alleged 'ground redevelopment' that has been on indefinite hold since the day after it was announced.....some twelve years ago or so.
Bullish statements such as that from Faragher last year [or the year before]....that ECCC will build the 'best non-test match ground in the country' just continue this embarrassing farce. Perhaps some honesty, and mea culpa, just for once, may be the order of the day.


Interesting. It appears that No Change Essex are belatedly inching their way into the twenty-first century.
I challenged them on their opaqueness and disenfranchisement of members by not putting their members' forums online a few years ago to encourage participation and some openness. The abrupt reply received went along the lines of 'we can't do that!, it would allow anyone to view/listen in'. 
So a welcome change from the previous long time imposition of deliberately timed dates and times that did their best to ensure as few people (who had awkward questions to ask..) as possible were able to attend.


Now online here: https://www.essexcricket.org.uk/2020/06/04/watch-our-first-virtual-members-forum/

It has been edited down from over an hour .. haven't listened yet to see what has been taken out.




I see the ECB have published the names of 55 players who will form the basis of England squads this summer. Only one Essex player - Dan Lawrence. Astonishing to think the county and T20 champions have only one player in that long list! Jamie Porter must be disappointed. And I see perennially injured young Topley has got the call.


Young Topley?   To be fair, I think don't think last year's performance was as good from Porter. I think the selectors want players who offer more with bat and in the field. At least in their opinion. Nat junior would be more upset.

However taking our ECCC hats off for the moment, this current team is more than the sum of its parts. Still let's hope we can see some live cricket soon... even if its online!


In truth, which Essex players would be unlucky to miss out?? Im not so sure about Porter or Cook jr tbh.  Looking at the squad, barring one or two (Jennings being 1) I cant argue much


Andy he's young to me. I remember his Dad starting for us about 35 years ago


I said a while ago that I can see Topley being part of the T20 WC squad


However taking our ECCC hats off for the moment, this current team is more than the sum of its parts. Still let's hope we can see some live cricket soon... even if its online!


The team being greater than the sum of it's parts is just like Essex. Few of our team would get into some County teams but put them all together & WOW!!


Not sure that Porter is quite good enough but he's pretty unlucky to miss out in a group of 55.  He was told a couple of years ago he'd be playing in one of the Tests against India, they went back on that and he's disappeared since.  He's taken more wickets than anyone else since 2016 in the CC.  He's not been treated well.


Essex innit!


An understatement. He has been crying his eyes out at the injustice. I've told him not to think about the nasty men/selectors. His time will come.


It seems odd with Chris Silverwood in charge that neither Porter or Cook are involved in such a large squad. Surely they are better than the likes of Gleeson? They both have taken more first class wickets recently than most of the other bowlers listed too.


Agreed. But maybe RG is seen to have a bit more nip off the wicket or better T20 form?  Or the fact he comes from The North??


There also seems to be this obsession with sheer pace, irrespective of whether they are accurate or not & fitness doesn't seem to matter eg Stone played about 3 FC games last year but still got called up on the strength of his pace which, admittedly, neither Porter or Cook have!


Too much NoPaint.


Didn’t Don Revie bring together 80 of the cream of English football to bond over bingo and bowls at Butlins?  Worked well for him.  

Perhaps Nat should get his boy down to the nearest Mecca, when they open up again. Get some practice in.




At last the  absurd relic of a commentator that is Geoffrey Boycott has irritated the hell out of me for the lat time. Goodbye, good riddance and DON'T COME BACK!!

Trivia note: My first recollection of a "backronym" was on an Aussie banner in the late 70s, I think it went something like:

Boring
Odious
Yawn-inducing
Cumbersome
Obnoxious
Tiresome
Tedious

... all rather prescient about his commentary later on


Do I gather you are not a fan?


Could be replaced by his No1 fan, Thersa May .


Those are very long words for an Australian. Maybe they got a Kiwi to help out with that banner?


Well said Old Has Been, agree with every word!
Never has such a selfish player represented his County & Country as Boycott, plus he ducked out for 3 years when he didn't fancy facing Lillee & Thomson at their peak. A poor Captain of Yorkshire who always divided opinion, worth reading books about him by Don Mosey & also much covered by John Hampshire in his autobiography which tells you much about the man.


I will sort of miss GB on TMS. There is a tradition of having a comedy Yorkshireman in the commentary team.  Generally Agnew (whom I’m not a great fan of) has shut Boyks up at the right time.


Yep. No doubt the BBC will replace him with someone from the LBGTXQ 'community' to ensure their quota.


My big fear this that they replace him with Botham


That is a myth.  Boycotts break from international cricket started before anyone in England had ever heard of Jeff Thomson.  He'd never taken a Test wicket before playing them in 74/75.  Lillee also was coming off a very serious back injury and had hardly played for a couple of years before the England series.


Agree. Boycs couldn't handle left arm medium bowlers, specifically Solkar (India).


True, Boyks originally dropped out of Test cricket when he was having problems with the innocuous left-armer Solkar, but he was picked for the Aussie tour of 1975 and bottled out.  Thompson was indeed an unknown quantity but Lillee most definitely wan't, and Max Walker was pretty useful too. Boycott wasn't seen in England colours against the great WI pace attack of 1976, and didn't make himself available until calmer waters prevailed. As Tony Greig put it "Boycott is where the fast bowlers aren't" .



