


Just lost my 38-year-old niece and mother of two preteens to cancer. Out of the blue. She lasted about six painful months after her first diagnosis.

I'm in the vicious circle of disbelief, anger, and depression. I've never been really depressed before; it takes over; it's like you're on a carnival ride: It takes your body where it decides; you can look around and think other thoughts, but you're always on the ride until it lets go if it ever does.

My daughter urged me to go on nature walks, which are therapeutic anytime. I will, but it rains daily here, and the pandemic is not helping. The darkness seems pervasive. I tell myself that I need to eat; then I ask myself why -- about everything I do. It's really a bad trip; none of my coping skills help. A degree in psychology and reading all those self-help books are limited.

Diversion seems to help, a lot. I started watching James Bond movies, starting when Michael Craig took over the role. That diverted me. Which really helped, but the painful truth, like a noontime demon, would then attack me from out of nowhere.

They say that time heals all wounds, and I'm sure I'll move on, but I'll never "get over it." You just do stuff and hope full and complete diversion takes over.

Death without belief in a fantasy afterlife is like being in a painful vice-grip. I can understand why our ancestors cooked up the myth: any palliative in a storm.

I know I'm not the first in the valley of despond, not that that's any real help, though.


@Pensacola Jim I lost my sister (56) to cancer, in December of 2019. 

Late in 2020, I attended a grief counseling group, where we met once per week, for six weeks. It was helpful to be around other people, who were also suffering, from the loss of loved ones. 

Someone else mentioned in a prior post, that being out in nature gave them comfort.

I am not sure what works best. Currently, the past few weeks has been difficult for some reason and I think of my sister, more and more. 

What I do know, is that my sister would want me to be happy, even if, happiness is elusive currently. 

Perhaps try the grief group counseling and see if that helps. Or a walk in nature.


@Pensacola Jim: Wow! Not only do I share your city but your words resonate with me perfectly. I lost my wife and best friend to covid in December, and in the early stages of grief I find some relief in diversions, including long walks on the beach or other natural areas. But I am waiting for these diversions to dominate my life and my thoughts. I find some hope in President Biden's words about a time when thoughts of my wife will bring a smile more than tears.


@Pensacola Jim  I'm so sorry for your loss, and I agree with you that diversion works only a little, for while. 

If you can't get outside these days for a nature walk, perhaps try bringing some nature inside to care for? A loving pet can be a great solace, and even plants can be small miracles, therapeutic in their way; as you move through sorrow it helps to watch, also, over growth and new life.


@Larry Chamblin 

Losing a loved one is the most stressful event any one can endure, so say the psychology texts: It scores 100 out of 100 possible points; that and divorce.

Death of a child, however, must be 200. No one should have to suffer that.

Good luck, Larry. I might see you on the beach this summer. It was so cold today, though, that it's hard to believe that the sun will ever warm us up again.

Pensacola strong!


@Pensacola Jim 
My condolences on the passing of your niece, so very young and precious to you know doubt. May you find ways to heal, repair, and allow yourself to feel the full range of emotions that, as you say, come out of nowhere. In peace.


@Errand Boy 

Thank you for caring and sharing, E.B.

Yes, death hurts bad, long and deep. It's a pain like no other, no real healing, just learning somehow to live with it, or live in spite of it.

It's really too much, at least for me. It makes life a really bad joke: try as hard as you can only to certainly lose everything sooner or later. No doubt that's why humankind has come up with so many alternative facts, like reincarnation, resurrection of the dead, life is a computer game, we're in the Matrix, life is an illusion, you can't die because you, that is, your soul was never born, etc. The truth may set you free, but it also makes you miserable.


@A. Reader 

Pets are so good psychologically for the human psyche that I say it's cheating, that is, anyone can hack life with a loving pet, our perfect friends for life.


@Errand Boy talk to your sister, I lost my dad in 93 and still talk to him


just letting you know you’ve been seen and heard.


@Pensacola Jim ~ I have some helpful hints:  

*  My husband but also my loving adorable CAT save my life everyday from grief at my mother's passing 4 years ago.  A minuscule, cozy dependent shifts my focus helpfully.  

*  Convert the grief into constructive energy: what are your interests & hobbies ? Volunteer with small needy animals, help with letter-writing campaigns on issues personally important to you, watch inspirational documentaries like "Chasing Coral" and "My Octopus Teacher" ~ be alive & make the most of it !  

*  The survivors need your attention & love more than James Bond ~ be helpful & do whatever your loved one would want most for them.  It helps pass the time until you feel less grief (which WILL happen), converts the negative energy into positive, AND helps the survivors.


I have had more than my share of loved one's pass, always Nature is the balm. I return to the cathedral of trees and let the wind carry my voice, my poetry, read sometimes in silence and other times aloud, to those who have crossed over. Talking to others does help, but the real healing for me is in the ever giving abundance of a forest.


This is good advice. However, I find the day to day so difficult; when the little things bring back memories. I take solace in the words of our President: “There will come a day, I promise you, when the thought of your son, or daughter, or your wife or your husband, brings a smile to your lips before it brings a tear to your eye. It will happen. My prayer for you is that day will come sooner than later.”


Walking, biking and talking. Just keep walking until exhausted, then read poetry. If my partner for 50 years will pass, I will too. I will not have the power nor the courage to grief again and spend my last years in unbearable solitude and pain. I will assert my right to choose the time of my own departure.


Anticipatory grief is no match for death which is always so shocking even after the terminal cancer or chronic illness of  someone you love.  Grief itself is stealthy, following you everywhere. Just when you think you are feeling better you turn a corner and have a remembrance and weep.  In the beginning you think of the person every waking minute which becomes an hour and then a day.  a month, and a year dwindling until, oddly it seems more natural the person you love is absent than present.  Throughout you keep the person in your heart and your mind.


New Yorkers.  

Let's think about grief about the possibility of grief.


With grief,  there are ways to try and mitigate the pain.

1) feel your feelings.  Don't deny them.  Don't try to anaesthetize yourself (drugs/alcohol) from that pain.  You have to go Through it, in order to get to the other side.

2) be extra kind and patient with yourself.  Build-in emotional and mental cushions.  Tell your employer you need extra time to grieve.  Push back if they are giving you too much work.  Allow yourself to hire a cleaning person once in a while (if it's something you typically would Not do...).  Treat yourself to takeout more often.  Or a spa day or weekend getaway.

3)  Get out in nature.  Exercise often.  Eat healthily,  and be sure to eat even when you don't feel hungry.  Understand that grief takes a huge Physical Toll on your body.  Dealing with grief is not just mental and emotional.  Keep  this in mind.  Be sure to get plenty of rest.  Go for daily walks or a bike ride.  Maybe get a pet (if you don't already have one).

4) Talk to a mental health counselor,  or a sympathetic friend.  Join a grief support group.  And if you are grieving over the loss of a pet,  I highly recommend petloss.com.  It is a godsend!

5) How we perceive things can greatly impact our reality.  Yes, the death of those we care about is painful, but we should never be so dependent on any one person for our own happiness, that we feel we 'can't go on' without them.  (This is a common issue for certain married couples who have no other relationships outside the marriage...)


Re#5 My husband and I have been together nearly three decades, and are closer and more in love than ever before. I appreciate all the people in my life but there’s no way any of those relationships can begin to compare to what I share with my beloved. I understand that one day one of us will have to bear the heavy burden of continuing on without the other.  That’s the price we will pay for sharing this precious love.


@Lisa Thank You


After my brother died at a young age unexpectedly, I tried for many years to stave off future grief by teaching myself to “expect the unexpected”. I thought that if I could picture losing other loved ones and deal with it ahead of time, the pain wouldn’t be so crushing the next time (because there will always be a next time). But I eventually gave up, because while I could creep up close to acceptance, the door never opened, and I realized that in order to deal with any pain, I still had to go through it, whether it was ahead of time, or in the future. There’s no avoiding it.


Grief itself is difficult enough, but to spend time in anticipatory grief is somewhat unnatural given that it serves little to no purpose and certainly won't alter the natural course of events that were given to us and that we are all subject to.

There is nothing prohibitive about thinking and knowing that grief awaits, but to harp upon it is allowing "the sound of your own wheels drive you crazy".

Not all cultures experience the extent of grief in the same manner that is inherent in the western world and are able to accept death as a part of the circle of life. They certainly miss the departed but are able to keep them alive by other spiritual and ritualistic means.

"So often times it happens that we live our lives in chains and never even know we have the key".


@John Virgone I think anticipatory grief is usually when someone is in palliative care or has been diagnosed with Alzheimer's. I think the uncertainty that comes with a pandemic is a bit of a stretch of the definition.


@John Virgone I wonder if grief comes in all forms acrows our life-span; the grief (and joy) that comes with the birth of any ephemeral human; the grief (and joy) of children growing up and growing away. And, if we are lucky enough to have family elders around us (as we live into our prime), the grief (and joy) as they begin to leave us. I'll note that living through the HIv-AIDS epidemic has taught me that grief is always around us if we choose to acknowledge it. Not just those who are dying young, but they remind us to notice those other griefs. Even certain music  or art will trigger it.


Five years ago my husband was diagnosed with dementia and the grieving began -- for both of us. Each loss hit us both -- in different ways -- but we grieved together. A year ago, I placed him in a memory care center as I could no longer care for him. Then the pandemic hit. I was not allowed to visit him in person -- to touch him, to kiss him -- until the last week of his life when I was allowed to be at his side 24/7. Over the past year, I grieved the loss of his physical presence, and our 36 wonderful years together. When he died last week, I felt a burden lift. I am sad, of course, but all those years of anticipatory grief served me well.



