 MONROE , LA. - CenturyLink 's modest bayou-backed headquarters , tucked in a pecan orchard on the outskirts of this poverty-riddled community of 50,000 residents , does n't exactly exude the image of a corporate titan. 
But the homegrown phone operator is poised this week to complete its second multibillion-dollar merger in less than two years with the acquisition of Denver-based Qwest . The deal is expected to close Friday . 
Over the next couple of months , more than a million Colorado phone bills , and dozens of utility trucks and signs that sprinkle the state , will fade from skyline blue to swampland green as the Qwest name is replaced with CenturyLink. 
The fate of 28,300 Qwest workers , including 7,300 in Colorado , is now in the hands of a company that five years ago employed 6,400 nationwide . 
The story of how little Central Telephone and Electronics - as the company was called when it incorporated in 1968 - is transforming into the nation 's third-largest traditional phone operator starts with its founder , Clarke M. Williams , a low-key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 2002 at the age of 80. 
Not the type to be shielded in a high-rise office , Williams would often greet employees near the entrance of the company 's three-story headquarters , which expanded to six floors in 2000. 
There are no splashy CenturyLink signs blanketing this northeast Louisiana community or fancy corporate slogans , like Qwest 's " Ride the Light " or " Spirit of Service . " The company has a decentralized operating model that places key decisions in the hands of midlevel executives and managers based in each of its service markets . 
Keeping its small-town flavor 
CenturyLink wants to maintain its small-town flavor , despite questions about its ability to lure top-level talent here to run an enterprise that will generate about $19 billion in annual revenue after the Qwest merger . That revenue figure is on par with such Fortune 200 companies as Nike , U.S. Bancorp and Cigna. 
It 's a high-stakes bet on Century- Link 's part that the company can turn around a Qwest business engulfed in a years-long revenue and landline swoon . 
" @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said CenturyLink chief executive Glen Post . " We do n't think being in a small town is a disadvantage for us. " 
The company 's roots in the area run deep . Williams father purchased Oak Ridge Telephone Co. , which had 75 phone subscribers , for $500 in 1930 and ran the operation from their home about 25 miles northeast of Monroe . Bills for the company 's initial customers were handwritten , with the younger Williams delivering them on his bike . 
The elder Williams gave the operation to his son as a wedding gift in 1946. 
The company went public in 1978 and has had just three CEOs - Williams , his son Clarke Williams Jr . ( who died in 1994 ) and Post , who has held the title since 1992. 
CenturyLink carved its niche operating and acquiring rural phone lines . 
" Mr. Williams always felt like acquisitions was a great way to grow , " Post said . 
While Qwest and others have lost access lines at a double-digit percentage clip in recent years amid the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has grown its subscriber base , thanks to acquisitions and the stickiness of rural customers . 
" The wireless coverage in rural areas is n't quite as good , so less people are willing to just dump their home phones , " said Todd Rethemeier , an analyst with Hudson Square Research in New York . " The demographics favors them too - an older population in rural areas is less likely to abandon their wireline phone . " 
That steady revenue stream and a healthy dividend have helped prop up the company 's stock price , a key reason CenturyLink is acquiring the larger Qwest and not vice versa. 
CenturyLink announced plans to purchase Qwest in a stock swap in April 2010 - less than a year after closing a deal for Kansas-based Embarq. 
Like Qwest , Embarq was larger than CenturyLink and operated in more densely populated areas that face intense wireless competition . 
The Qwest deal , valued at more than $20 billion with the assumption of nearly $12 billion debt , will more than double CenturyLink 's landlines to roughly 15 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
CenturyLink officials are hoping their operating model of localizing decisions on products , pricing and marketing will work in urban areas . 
" ( Qwest ) did n't necessarily differentiate their pricing by market , " said CenturyLink chief operating officer Karen Puckett . " They would have a national campaign that may work well in Denver , but it might not work as well in Portland , Ore. , or Minneapolis or Orlando , Fla. , because we all have different competitors . " 
Post said the company 's efforts thus far in Embarq 's larger markets - Orlando , Fla. , Fort Myers , Fla. , and Las Vegas - show the model will work beyond rural communities . 
" We 've reduced access-line losses by 50 percent and we 've improved high-speed Internet performance by almost 50 percent in those large markets , " Post said . 
The company wo n't release exact figures for those markets . But across its entire footprint , CenturyLink shed 7.6 percent of its landlines in 2010 . That compares with an 8.8 percent drop in 2009 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The option to move " 
Another question boiling among analysts , employees and locals is whether the fast-growing company can succeed operating from Monroe - far from Qwest 's mostly Western markets . 
" They 'll give people the option to move into Monroe , but for somebody who lives in the West - Denver , Seattle or Portland - Monroe , La. , is not the most attractive option , " said Donna Jaegers , an analyst with D.A . Davidson &amp; Co. 
Monroe has no downtown skyline and is peppered with more than its share of abandoned or run-down buildings . Without a pro sports team or LoDo and Larimer Square-type scene , night-life activities often revolve around bowling or a movie , and locals can quickly list the number of Targets , Best Buys and Home Depots that are in the area - one of each . 
Post went public this month with requests to improve the city 's aesthetics and bolster job opportunities for spouses of CenturyLink employees . 
" One of our top priorities is beautification , " said Monroe Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in that area . But we also challenged him as a company to help us in these areas as well . " 
Mayo said it 's inevitable that the company will look elsewhere because of the shuffling of board members who make decisions on headquarters . Four existing Qwest board members , including CEO Ed Mueller , will join the CenturyLink board . 
" It ultimately comes to a point where board members look at other options , " Mayo said . " We know that that will not be an exception for CenturyLink . Our challenge is to continue to create the best environment that we can to hopefully have them stay here as long as they can . " 
In response to perceived shortcomings about its community from outsiders , residents are quick to point out that their company is the surviving enterprise in the Qwest deal . That 's key as it appears almost everyone in town knows someone who works for CenturyLink , which employs 1,200 at its headquarters and another 200 at other offices in the area . 
" We 're not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mayo said . " But to have an opportunity to acquire a company like Qwest speaks volumes about our community . " 
There is a disconnect , though , between CenturyLink and some residents since the company does n't offer local phone service in its headquarters town . 
" They may be big , but they 're not big here , " said Vance Spangler , a longtime Monroe area resident . 
As part of an incentives deal signed in late 2009 , CenturyLink has agreed to keep its headquarters in Louisiana through 2019 . But Post notes that the company can relocate before then if it returns a portion of the incentives . 
Growing revenue long term 
A strategic question hovering over CenturyLink as it approaches the expected closing of the Qwest deal Friday is how the company will grow revenue long term in a dying business . 
The answer lies with broadband expansion and IPTV , a service that delivers video content over a dedicated Internet network . 
" As a matter of physics , wireless can never provide the level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " That 's where our future is , and that 's why IPTV is a key part of our future . " 
Another large landline operator , AT&amp;T , spent billions of dollars in recent years launching an IPTV service to compete with cable operators . 
" By rolling it out now , they benefit from the fact that AT&amp;T has really broken in a lot of this technology and has decreased the cost of rolling it out , " Jaegers said . " But the challenge that they 're facing is that Qwest still needs to upgrade its plants more in order to have the speeds to roll out IPTV. " 
CenturyLink 's IPTV service , called Prism , will be available to 1 million homes by year 's end . The company plans to eventually offer it in many of Qwest 's markets , including Denver , Puckett said . 
" My objective , " she said , " is to build hope back into the front-line employees in terms of going in with the opportunity to have more of a growth plan @ 