The youngsters in Ronni Cohen 's entrepreneurship class learn more than what it takes to sell the products they invent . They learn how to sell themselves  Entrepreneurship Educator : Ronni Cohen , Burnett Elementary School  A student enrolls in a course titled Economics , Technology , and Entrepreneurship Education and submits the following design abstract for the class 's Inventor 's Portfolio component :  " Eating pasta has never been easy . Most people wo n't eat spaghetti dishes at a restaurant because they find it embarrassing to eat . My pasta twirler makes eating spaghetti fun and easy . You 'll never have to be embarrassed again . "  Before she submits her idea , the student takes pains to complete the homework required of an entrepreneur : initial market research to identify a need ; product research and development to meet that need ; a determination of the land , labor , and capital requirements of production ; and market surveys to hit upon a competitive price as well as a catchy name for the product .  Nothing remarkable there . But what saves the Pasta Twirler from the Annals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jessica McClafferty . Her occupation ? She 's a student at Burnett Elementary School , in Wilmington , Del . Her age ? Ten .  Jessica is among scores of Wilmington students who 've been taught entrepreneurship at a tender age by an extraordinary elementary-school teacher , Ronni Cohen . For almost a quarter of a century , " Miss Cohen " -- this year 's Entrepreneurship Educator of the Year -- has been enlightening fourth graders about economic concepts such as scarcity , opportunity costs , and profit , and even about the intricacies of the Federal Reserve and the U.S. currency systems .  This year Cohen was one of 85 contenders for the Entrepreneurship Educator award . The judging panels singled her out for her " phenomenal " teaching materials , which she creatively synthesizes from sources as varied as newspaper comic strips and children 's books such as The Toothpaste Millionaire . Cohen also won praise for her innovative teaching methods and her devotion to teaching entrepreneurship . She 's clearly passionate about the broad impact her techniques can have at a tender age . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ award application : " Elementary-age students are too young for entrepreneurship education . NOT ! "  Her style is hands-on , far removed from the rote lecture formula often found in the classroom . " You do n't say , The definition of demand is ... , ' o explains Cohen . " Cooperative-learning groups provide opportunities for collaboration , brainstorming , and collegial exchange . " Her students learn by doing . On Market Days the children form " corporations ' and sell their " products " in the classroom . They learn how money moves in a program called Bank on It ! , using an in-school bank that Cohen persuaded the school ( and the bank , Wilmington Trust ) to open in the fall of 1992 . A unit called EconoM &Mics; uses M &M; candies to teach business basics such as production of goods and services , sunk costs , competition , and brand-name loyalty . ( Two excerpted questions : " What seasonal items illustrate the concept of sunk cost ? " " What factors might make you choose M &Ms; instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a gadget to solve a problem , Cohen 's students devise inventions such as a hamster-propelled ball that mops the floor . And they knock on doors , polling neighbors to determine preferred names for their products .  The junior entrepreneurs meet the kinds of business contacts their grown-up counterparts interact with regularly . Frequent classroom visitors include patent lawyers , bankers , and other businesspeople , as well as the children 's parents .