 It was the start of what would become the NFL 's largest national anthem protest to date .  This is the anatomy of how it happened .  It started simply enough . McCourty 's teammates told him they wanted to figure out a way to join the national anthem protests that started with Colin Kaepernick last season and have continued into this preseason . McCourty was all-in . The group talked , and over the span of several days , they decided what they wanted to do .  The group next went to head coach Hue Jackson to tell him of their intentions . On Monday , the day of the Browns ' preseason contest against the Giants , Jackson approved .  " Do what you think is right , " he told them .  The group came to a decision hours before the game .  " We decided to take a knee and say a prayer for peace between all Americans , " McCourty said .  That part of the protest , which stands as the largest so far among NFL players , often has been lost among media and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to pray for peace .  " We believe that through our actions , we can bring change , " McCourty said in an interview with B/R .  " Americans come from all types of different backgrounds , " he continued . " Black or white , rich or poor , immigrant or not , from wherever you come from or live , we want the same thing . We are all Americans , and we wanted to make sure people understood what Colin 's original message was all about .  " A lot of us , and a lot of people in football , were furious about what happened in Charlottesville . As NFL players , we have the power to remind everyone that we are all Americans . We should n't be pitted against one another . "  Follow protest developments throughout the NFL season by downloading the new B/R app .  McCourty , quarterback DeShone Kizer , offensive tackle Shon Coleman , punter Britton Colquitt and offensive lineman Marcus Martin were all around them , putting a hand on their shoulders . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ players are just like the rest of us . They watch and care about events happening in the country outside of their work . Before their protest , Browns players had talked extensively about some of the things happening in the United States recently , including the events in Charlottesville , Virginia , where a woman was killed when a car drove into a crowd of counter-protesters at a white supremacist rally .  The Browns ' decision to take a knee was a brave act . But that is only part of the story . The other part -- about what will happen in the future -- is equally important to know .  NFL protests are growing , and they have the potential to do so exponentially . That is the next , new front in the Kaepernick saga , who for so long was so alone . Fans , coaches , front office executives , owners and the commissioner will have to grapple with that .  Scott Eklund/Associated Press  The attempt to squash Kaepernick backfired , McCourty said . A movement , partly based on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Donald Trump 's vitriolic rhetoric , is exploding across NFL locker rooms .  Several players from both conferences told me they expect anywhere from 15 to 25 of the league 's teams to have some type of demonstration on opening weekend .  " We can bring change and raise awareness , " McCourty said . " A lot of players have been wanting to do something but just did n't know how to handle things .  " Then a lot of us saw what happened with players protesting in Philadelphia . When Malcolm Jenkins protested and Chris Long protested , and we saw what Michael Bennett did in Seattle , a lot of us thought , ' It 's time to do something . We just ca n't sit still and watch this without doing something . We need to act . ' "  He added : " You 're going to see more players do this . It continues to grow around the league . " 