Did the Reagan-era USDA really classify ketchup as a vegetable ?  July 16 , 2004  Dear Cecil :  The phrase " ketchup is a vegetable " is coming up a lot in discussions of President Reagan 's recent demise . What 's the story behind that line ? Who classifies ketchup , or any other food , as a vegetable , meat , legume , etc ? Why do they feel a need to make these official classifications ? Who in the Reagan administration actually made that decision ? I 've also heard that the ketchup-as-vegetable thing was really Carter 's doing and that salsa was classified as a vegetable by Clinton . When I search for the origin of the phrase , all I get are a bunch of political sites repeating it without explanation .  -- Russ , via e-mail  No wonder . The story is so convoluted that it defied simple explanation at the time . Even today , the episode can be plausibly presented ( depending on the political leanings of the presenter ) as either a simple bureaucratic screwup or an unsuccessful effort by the right to pursue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .  Ketchup and other food products are classified for different purposes by different agencies under a wide variety of federal programs . The classification in this case was by the U.S. Department of Agriculture for its subsidized school lunch program . Then as now , local school districts could receive reimbursement for each lunch served provided it met minimum standards . In mid-1981 , only a few months after Reagan took office , Congress cut $1 billion from child-nutrition funding and gave the USDA 90 days--the blink of an eye , for the federal bureaucracy--to come up with new standards that would enable school districts to economize , in theory without compromising nutrition .  The USDA convened a panel of nutritionists and food service directors to ponder what to do . One option on the table--no one later would admit to putting it there--was to " accept catsup as a fruit/vegetable when used as an ingredient . " Some panel members seized on this as an opportunity to discuss whether to count ketchup even if used as a condiment . From what I can tell , the motive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about what kids would actually eat . USDA standards at the time required that a reimbursable lunch consist of five items : meat , milk , bread , and two servings of fruit or vegetables . Many kids refused to eat the veggies and the stuff wound up as " plate waste . " Would-be realists on the panel reasoned that if they could count ketchup as a vegetable they could meet federal standards without having to throw away so many lima beans , thereby saving money while having no impact on the kids . Looked at in a certain light , it made sense . Ketchup was n't the only newly permissible substitute : pickle relish and conceivably other condiments could also count as vegetables ( precise interpretation was left to state officials ) ; protein sources like tofu or cottage cheese could replace meat ; and corn chips , pretzels , and other snacks could replace bread . Minimum portion sizes were also reduced , purportedly another effort to reduce waste .  Mid-level Reaganauts at the USDA saw all this as a matter of giving the states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest of the world would see it as taking food away from children . Unfortunately for Reagan , the 90-day deadline allowed no time for higher review . When the proposed new rules were released for comment in September 1981 , food activists went ballistic . Democratic politicians staged photo ops where they feasted on skimpy-looking meals that conformed to the new standards . The mortified administration withdrew the proposal and the USDA official in charge of the program was transferred , a move widely interpreted as a firing . One person who did n't come out of the mess with ketchup on his face was Jimmy Carter , who 'd had nothing to do with it .  So , a garden-variety goof , right ? It looked worse than that , thanks to agriculture secretary John Block , an antiregulatory zealot who attempted to defend the new rules after the fact , claiming they 'd been misunderstood . Nonsense ; they were just stupid . All intentions aside , counting condiments as vegetables and reducing portion sizes were an invitation to abuse .