October 4 th , 2012 Several CIDD staff and affiliates , including Dr. Mark Zylka , are featured in WBTV News 3 's " On Your Side " special , " Autism : Answers and Understanding " . The show examined many of the key issues facing families who have a child on the Autism spectrum . More  September 6 th , 2012 Dr. Piven and Dr. Sikich receive Autism Center of Excellence grants for new research . Multimillion dollar grants further enhance UNC 's recognition as one of the world 's top autism research centers . More  July 20 th , 2012 Ann Palmer is the new Family Faculty member for the LEND Program at the Carolina Institute for Developmental Disabilities ( CIDD ) located at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill . She is a parent of an adult son with autism and a professional working in the field of autism for the last 20 years . More  July 20 th , 2012 Questionnaire completed by parents may help identify 1-year-olds at risk for autism . More  Ann Palmer is the new Family Faculty member for the LEND Program at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill . She is a parent of an adult son with autism and a professional working in the field of autism for the last 20 years . She is the former Director of Advocacy and Chapter Support for the Autism Society of North Carolina where she coordinated over 50 Chapters across the state of North Carolina . She also worked for Division TEACCH as the Parent Support Coordinator , developing and coordinating a parent mentor program that served more than 800 families .  We are happy to announce that Ann is the author of A Friend 's and Relative 's Guide to Supporting the Family with Autism : How Can I Help ? , recently published by Jessica Kingsley Publishers . When a child is diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder ( ASD ) , what the family really needs , and often lacks , is positive reassurance and understanding from those closest to them . Ann gives advice on how extended family members and friends can provide that necessary support and what the parents can do to encourage and develop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families to illustrate the complex feelings that parents and other members of the family are likely to go through after a child is diagnosed . It gives practical tips on the kinds of help that might be needed most . This book is a great resource to families of individuals with ASD and to the professionals who support families .  Ann 's two other books are , Realizing the College Dream with Autism or Asperger Syndrome : A Parent 's Guide to Student Success , and Parenting Across the Autism Spectrum : Unexpected Lessons We 've Learned , co-authored with Maureen Morrell and winner of the Autism Society of America 's Literary Work of the Year for 2007 . We welcome Ann to our LEND program ! Ann 's email address is ann.palmer@cidd.unc.edu and her website is www.annpalmerautism.com .  July 20 , 2012  Questionnaire completed by parents may help identify 1-year-olds at risk for autism  Lauren Turner-Brown , of the University of North Carolina School of Medicine , and colleagues analyzed information from about 700 children whose parents had completed the First Year Inventory when their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions about infant behaviors , including questions about the infants ' communication , imitation and repetitive behaviors . Read More ...  July 20 , 2012  New research by CIDD scientists at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine may have pinpointed an underlying cause of the seizures that affect 90 percent of people with Angelman syndrome ( AS ) , a neurodevelopmental disorder .  Published online Wednesday , June 6 , 2012 in the journal Neuron , researchers led by Benjamin D. Philpot , PhD , professor of cell and molecular physiology at UNC , describe how seizures in individuals with AS could be linked to an 