 RICHMOND - Northern Virginia 's rapidly growing outer suburbs would gain one new seat in the state Senate and three in the House of Delegates under proposed maps for the once-a-decade redistricting released by legislative leaders Tuesday night . 
The new districts are driven by the region 's rocketing population growth over the last decade and represent a shift in power from southern portions of the state that have grown more slowly . 
The General Assembly must realign the boundaries of its 40 Senate seats and 100 delegate districts once every 10 years to reflect new census numbers . 
The proposals released Tuesday were drawn up by Democrats in the state Senate , where their party holds a thin two-vote majority . Likewise , the House map was drawn by Republicans who hold a commanding majority in the chamber . 
The two chambers will also have to agree to new boundaries for the state 's 11 congressional districts ; state leaders will release plans for those districts in coming weeks . 
Each side used sophisticated mapping software to draw districts designed to protect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Senate proposal , sponsored by Sen. Janet D. Howell ( D-Fairfax ) , deals with lower population counts in the Hampton Roads area by collapsing the districts of two incumbent Republicans in Virginia Beach . It also merges two underpopulated Republican districts in Southside Virginia . 
" Senate Democrats have crafted an outrageously partisan redistricting plan that will go down as one of the most notorious examples of gerrymandering in history , " said Senate Minority Leader Thomas K. Norment ( R-James City ) . 
In Northern Virginia , senators proposed divvying up the city of Alexandria , portions of which had been included in two districts , into three districts , allowing its heavily Democratic voting base to temper more a politically integrated district in Prince William . 
The new district in Northern Virginia would include portions of western and southern Loudoun County , as well portions of Clarke , Fauquier and Prince William counties . The Richmond suburbs would also gain a new Senate seat . 
Top senators said that their maps comply with state and federal law and that they worked to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and towns , only two more than the current maps . 
Majority Leader Richard L. Saslaw ( D-Fairfax ) said Democrats attempted to shore up some of their districts but left a competitive map , noting that U.S. Sen. James Webb ( D ) won 21 of the map 's 40 districts in 2006 , reflecting Webb 's narrow win statewide that year . 
" The theme here is that we did n't get greedy , " he said . 
There will be particular interest in the Senate lines because Republicans plan an aggressive campaign to win back the chamber from Democrats , who have held it since 2007. 
In the House , Republican leaders collapsed the underpopulated district of the leader of the Democratic opposition , merging the Southside seat of House Minority Leader Ward L. Armstrong ( Henry ) into the district of a neighboring Republican . 
" They 're doing it exclusively to get at me , " Armstrong said . " I 've made a lot of people mad in Richmond . " 
They added three House seats to Northern Virginia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Loudoun and Prince William and one that includes another portion of Prince William as well as a portion of Stafford . 
They accomplished that shift by combining two districts in southwest Virginia , collapsing four districts in the Hampton Roads area into two and combining two seats west of Loudoun. 
" It 's a fair map , " said Del . S. Chris Jones ( R-Suffolk ) , who is sponsoring the Republican plan . " We received input from both sides of the aisle , including the black caucus . " 
The release of the maps on Tuesday night is the official start of the redistricting process . Legislative committees in charge of the process will hold public hearings around the state and the General Assembly will convene in Richmond on Monday for a special session on redistricting. 
This is the first time since Reconstruction that redistricting will be tackled by a divided legislature . But the General Assembly must solve any disputes rapidly or risk disrupting this year 's November elections . Virginia is one of only four states that will hold a state vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Virginia is one of nine states that is required under the terms of the 1965 Voting Rights Act to submit its plans for approval to the Justice Department , to ensure the proposals do not dilute the power of black voters . 
The speed required in the process will provide a powerful incentive for legislative leaders to give the opposite party a wide berth to draw their own lines . But they will face challenges from the minority party in each chamber , as well as citizen groups working to eliminate partisan gerrymandering. 
In the Senate , Republicans submitted a competing map , which Norment said was more fair . 
Courts have interpreted the Voting Rights Act to require that Southern states maintain districts where a majority of residents are black , to ensure those residents voting power is not diffused . 
In keeping with the law , the Senate map includes five majority-minority districts - the same as a decade ago . The House plan likewise includes 12 majority-minority seats . 
After the General Assembly approves its new districts , they will go to Gov @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 
McDonnell has established a bipartisan advisory commission on redistricting , which will meet Wednesday to recommend alternative maps drawn without regard to party or incumbency . Groups that sought the commission 's creation will urge McDonnell to use his veto pen to ensure the final plan reflects the commission 's suggestions . 
" There 's no reason to believe anything we 've done is going to impact the legislature , " said Richmond businessman E. Bryson Powell , a member of a group advocating redistricting 