Rudy Eugene 's mother : Son was " no zombie , " should have been tased , not shot  ( CBS ) MIAMI , Fla. - The mother of Rudy Eugene , who attacked a homeless man in Miami and chewed his face before being shot and killed by a police officer , says her son was " a nice kid " who could have been subdued with a Taser rather than deadly gunfire , CBS Miami reports .  The mother , who asked CBS Miami not to reveal her name , said that was n't her son who she saw on TV - the son who also had two baby brothers , and that " they used to go to church all the time together . "  " He was a good kid , " she said . " He gave me a nice card on Mother 's Day . Everyone says he was a zombie . He was no zombie . That was my son . "  On Saturday afternoon , the 31-year-old Eugene was killed by a police officer after a reported 18-minute attack on a homeless man , who police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shows Eugene coming across Poppo on a sidewalk along Miami 's MacArthur Causeway , stripping clothes off him and eventually chewing on his face .  Poppo was in critical condition at a Miami hospital . Police said he lost 75 percent of his face in the attack .  But Eugene 's mother told CBS Miami that she never had problems with him , and it was n't necessary for police to shoot him .  " They could have tased him , " she said . " I saw what happened on TV and I started crying . "  Eugene 's girlfriend , who also requested anonymity from CBS Miami , said the face-eating attacker she saw on TV was nothing like the man she knew and loved .  " That was n't him , that was his body but it was n't his spirit . Somebody did this to him , " she said .  " He loved God . He always read the Bible . He would give you knowledge on the Bible . Everywhere he went his Bible went . When he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  Eugene 's girlfriend described him as a " sweet loving gentleman " and a " hard working man " who worked at a car wash and dreamed of owning his own business . She said she has no idea what caused the attack , but she saw no signs of any violence in the nearly five years they lived together .  Armando Aguilar , president of the Fraternal Order of Police , told CBS Miami that he suspects Eugene was under the influence of an LSD-like drug called " bath salts . " The drug contains synthetic stimulants that can " cause chest pains , increased blood pressure , increased heart rate , agitation , hallucinations , extreme paranoia , and delusions , " according to the National Institute of Drug Abuse .  Sgt. Javier Ortiz , vice president of the Miami Fraternal Order of Police , said officials wo n't know for certain whether drugs played a role in the attack until toxicology reports are completed in a month or so . But he said police have been seeing increased incidents of drug-induced crime in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a nice , outgoing , ready-to-help-anybody kind of guy , " high school friend Cassandra Metayer told CBS Miami . " Someone in their right mind does n't do that . This is not the act of a normal person . It has to be someone under the influence . "  First off stop trying to make rudy the victim because he was not even close to one . No the cops could not tase rudy becasue it would of tased the real victim . An might of killed the victim because he was mostly in shock . Its sad what people will do to try to make someone look like a victim . I would not be surprize if rudy family tries to sue the cops for killing rudy . I do believe more people should of done something then make phone calls . The cops did the right thing and someone should of kill rudy before he ate 5 percent of the guy face if he wasnt going to stop . 