Slideshow <h> Translate <h> Click here to STUMBLE ! <h> FAMOUS PEOPLE WHO WERE SUCCESSFUL LATER IN LIFE !  The younger you are , the more alive your dreams are . You fantasize about them and they are an important part of your life . However , as we age , life has a tendency of getting in the way of our dreams that we once had . Instead of keeping our dreams alive , human beings have a bad habit of just letting them go . People may laugh at you and tell you that you are too old . Dreams are for the young . Generally the people who are this degrading towards another person are actually feeling insecure about their own personal dreams that they have chosen to leave . So sometimes without realizing it , they are quick to stomp on another person 's dream . Following your dreams will also encourage those important to you ( i.e. your children ) to never give up . Success and happiness can be contagious and it also has the power to change generations to come .  There is no doubt that as you grow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you primarily focus on are those around you . While you should never neglect your family or your responsibilities , you should equally NEVER neglect yourself . Just because you have children or other additional responsibilities does not mean that you give up who you are as a person . Life is very unique . While we may never know or understand our future , if there was something that was placed upon your heart in your youth , chances are , there is still a great chance that you need to follow your dreams . Will it be harder with added responsibilities ? ABSOLUTELY ! But in life , anything that is worth having is worth fighting for . I encourage everyone , regardless of your race , ethnicity or age , to GO AFTER YOUR DREAMS ! Even if you may not know exactly how to get there , start with your right foot on something that you know you can do and you will find that the left foot will somehow automatically follow . Some of 
@@5174241  Every week , WoW Insider brings you Arcane Brilliance for arcane , fire and frost mages . This week , we 've hit level 90 . We 've stood up , stretched , rubbed the mucus out of our eyes , apologized to our wives , kids , pets , plants , and anyone else we have been neglecting , and gone outside to remember what outside looks like . Then we 've promptly gone back inside because outside is way more attractive in Pandaria .  So what now ?  You 're a level 90 mage . Worn and scarred from your battle with Deathwing , you wandered into this new continent , leaning heavily upon your staff , beaten but not bowed . The beauty you found here inspired you ; dense bamboo forests shrouded in mystery , jade mountains capped with white , ornate temples steeped in ancient wisdom . You felt the call of the unexplored sink its hooks into your weary flesh , fill you with renewed purpose , prod your aching bones forward into new adventure and fresh conflict .  And now you find yourself invigorated with new power . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ancient magic--all things you thought impossible only weeks ago . But now that you 've reached the peak of your wizardry once more , the 90th level , still you crave more . You wish to increase your power , obtain rare and deadly weaponry , and yes , murder more warlocks . Seriously , screw those guys .  Pandaria offers so much to do immediately upon hitting level 90 that it can be overwhelming . This is n't like past expansions , guys . There are so many factions , all with their own unique rewards , and so many daily quests to be undertaken , that you really need to pick a focus and play it out , rather than try to complete every daily every day . Narrow your efforts , or risk burnout .  Or maybe you have all kinds of free time , I do n't know . Maybe you have the time and energy to complete dozens of daily quests every day and run dungeons and scenarios and raids like crazy and kill the Headless Horseman over and over and hunt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your farm and level your pets and cap your professions and watch all the episodes of Breaking Bad in a row and pen your memoirs and I hate you so much , mythological person who exists outside time and space .  For the rest of us , a little time-management might be in order . Below , you 'll find a list of options that open up for your mage at level 90 . Chart your own course . The methods will seem familiar ( reputation-grinding , dungeon-farming , etc. ) , but the sheer breadth of choice that you 're faced with at level 90 will seem new . Do n't try to do everything at once , trust me .  Pick up your portal spells  You 'll want these . Head to any portal trainer in any major city and pick up your new portal and teleport spell for Vale of Eternal Blossoms .