ENVIRONMENT IN THE LIVES OF CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
ONE
Everyday engagement with
climate change
"The number of plastic bottles not being recycled is staggering
and will increase further if we don't take action," said Alice
Harlock of Recycle Now. "Householders are often unsure if
items are recyclable.... An easy way to tell is, if an item is plastic
and bottle shaped it's recyclable." (Smithers, 15 October 2016:
The Guardian)
Since the dangers posed by global warming aren't tangible,
immediate or visible in the course of day - to - day life, however
awesome they appear, many will sit on their hands and do
nothing of a concrete nature about them. Yet, waiting until they
become visible and acute before being stirred to serious action
will, by definition, be too late. (Giddens, 2009: 2)
The institutionalisation of caring for and caring about others
within 'family' systems is not only imbricated with practices of
consumption consequential for the environment, but also frames
support for biodiversity and room for manoeuvre towards the
environmental and intergenerational justice advocated by those
seeking a more radical response to climate change. (Jamieson,
2016: 339)
The issue that underpins this book is climate change, but its contents
may not be what you expect. Rather than focus on what people
are doing to arrest climate change or what they should be doing, it
addresses questions that we argue are more fundamental. In particular,
it considers how families and the children within them think and feel
about their local environments and how these 'small' environmental
issues fit with 'big' environmental concerns about climate change in
one country in the Majority world (India) and one in the Minority
world (the UK). Why do we do this? There is a great deal of evidence
that, while most scientists agree that anthropogenic climate change is
a pressing issue and most people believe that climate change needs to
be addressed, relatively few in countries that produce the most carbon
emissions are prepared to make sacrifices to deal with it (Smith and
Howe, 2015). Many researchers, governments and climate change
organisations express bemusement about this, or take it as a sign of
the inherent selfishness of populations. Some assume that it reflects
the ignorance of the general population (as is implied in the epigraph
from Smithers at the beginning of this chapter). Such assumptions
are founded on an ontology that takes for granted that knowledge,
attitudes and behaviour are causally linked. We argue both that the
picture is more complex than this and that there is already evidence
that motivations for addressing climate change are differentiated and
understandable if viewed in the context of people's lives, much of
which is spent within families. In addition, the trend to treat children
as sites of intervention for climate change practices makes it imperative
that we understand how families view their environments.
We question visions of climate change response that are rooted in
the imaginary of the individual ethical consumer, where families and
children are given particular responsibility for 'fixing' the problem
(for example by making changes to their household recycling and
energy consumption practices). Instead, we argue for recognition that
socioeconomic, geographical and national contexts differentiate and
constrain possible actions - 'room for manoeuvre' in Jamieson's (2016)
terms - for families as a whole and individual members within them.
Overall, then, the book disrupts notions of individual responsibility
for climate change response.
We critique the assumption that increasing knowledge leads to
changes in attitudes and behaviour regardless of the context within
which families live or the ways in which parents view children's
knowledge and agency. We make a case for a focus on the everyday
and for bringing together childhood and family studies (and hence
generational understandings) with consideration of environmental
practices. We also challenge the privileging of knowledge produced
in the Minority world (so called because less than 20% of the world's
population lives within the most affluent countries, with over 90%
of the world's children living outside the Euro - Western Minority
world). The vast majority of developmental and environmental change
literature comes from the Minority world, particularly the United
States (US) (Pence and Marfo, 2008). Agarwal (1998) suggests that
women and children are disproportionately targeted in environmental
policies, even though women and children living in poverty are the
groups most likely to be affected by environmental changes and shocks.
We consider how families in both Majority and Minority worlds think
of, and experience, their environments.
The rest of the chapter is divided into six sections. The first section
considers why individuals are often targeted in climate change policy,
despite evidence that cognitive strategies, giving information designed
to get individuals to change their behaviour, do not work. The second
section looks at what we know about how understandings of climate
change have shifted over time in order to get a sense of whether or
not messages aimed at the general public have shifted awareness. The
third section considers current discourses of the future, families and
childhood in relation to environmental issues, while the fourth section
examines what Taylor (2013) calls 'common world' approaches to
climate change and actions to ameliorate it. The fifth section presents
the notion of 'environmental affordances', a concept that allows us to
engage with the ways in which climate change responses have to be
viewed as linked with everyday practices, which are negotiated within
families and situated in dynamic social, economic and geographic
contexts. The final section concludes the chapter with an overview
of the book.
Why focus on individuals in climate change policy?
Climate change is undoubtedly one of the major global issues of
the 21st century. This was amply demonstrated in 2015 by the
adoption of the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs) and subsequently the Paris Climate Accord. The SDGs - set
out in Transforming our world: The 2030 agenda for sustainable
development (United Nations, 2015) - consist of 17 aspirational
'global goals' brokered by the United Nations, through a deliberative
process involving its 193 member states, as well as global civil society,
and build on the principles agreed upon in a resolution popularly
known as The future we want (United Nations, 2012). The Paris
climate accord represented a consensus of the representatives of the
196 parties attending it, with 175 countries signing the agreement on
22 April 2016 (Earth Day). It came into force on 4 November 2016
when at least 55 countries accounting for 55% of carbon emissions
ratified the agreement, raising hope that, globally, climate change can
be seriously addressed (Espinosa and Mezouar, 2016). However, the
Paris summit also highlighted global inequalities in climate change
impact and response. Writing in the Financial Times, the Indian
Prime Minister Narendra Modi argued that it would be 'morally
wrong' for economically advanced countries that 'powered their way
to prosperity on fossil fuel' to shift responsibilities for carbon reduction
to the global south (Modi, 2015). His comments speak to concerns
about 'carbon colonialism' and the dominance of moral narratives
of environmentalism that emanate from affluent, high consuming
neoliberal cultures in the global north (Guha, 2006; Newell, 2012),
and seem particularly pertinent in a political moment when (at the
time of our writing in June 2017) the US President Donald Trump
has withdrawn the US from the Paris climate accord.
While the Paris climate accord operates at the level of nations, a
great deal of effort is expended by governments and non - governmental
organisations to get individuals to change their behaviour in terms
of water usage, energy usage and recycling. The question of how
much the general population needs to address climate change as an
everyday issue has exercised many researchers. The first two epigraphs
at the beginning of this chapter show how easy it is for environmental
organisations, governments and the media to blame individual
householders for not doing enough to ameliorate climate change
and to patronise them for being ignorant about what they should do.
Yet, while research on public understanding of climate change has
burgeoned, much remains sketchy about everyday negotiations of
environmental issues. There is a dearth of research on families, children
and environmental practices, even though environmental messages are
frequently targeted at families, and at children with the expectation
that they will influence their parents. This book is centrally concerned
with both of these issues. It seeks to illuminate understandings of
everyday engagement with climate change, by reporting the findings
of a study that takes a common world approach to research with
families and children in India and the UK. The study examines the
gaps between environmental policy rhetoric and everyday practices
for families living in different contexts by interrogating the utility of
constructing parenthood and childhood as sites for intervention in
climate change debates.
The targeting of climate change messages at individuals illuminates
their strategic importance to environmental policy as governments
pursue national and global aims and attempt to persuade the population
to take up policies they have devised. Government campaigns to
facilitate policy take - up and change practices generally give information
on which the population is expected to act. For example, the 1980s
UK AIDS information campaign had the slogan, 'AIDS: Don't die of
ignorance!'. Such campaigns are premised on what Fishbein and Ajzen
(1975) called 'reasoned action' in their psychological theory that has
come to be known as the ABC model, where A stands for Attitude,
B for Behaviour and C for Cognition. While the model continues to
be widely used, including in governments' 'sustainable development'
agenda, inconsistencies between attitude and behaviour led Ajzen
(1985) to expand the model to one of planned action, including
intention and the strength of belief. Social researchers, including
those working on climate change issues, have drawn attention to the
rationalist assumptions of individual agency that are embedded in
many environmental policies in ways 'so pervasive as to seem natural'
(Shove et al, 2012: 2). These assumptions pay limited attention to the
complexity of the social world, and in particular to the social structures
that limit choice and intention (Shove, 2010a).
Environmental psychologists such as Uzzell (2000) have theorised
the disjunction between individuals' environmental knowledge and
everyday practices as a 'knowledge - behaviour gap'. The factors
found to account for this 'gap' include a sense of powerlessness
caused because people feel that 'global' environmental concerns are
too big for them to do much about, particularly in comparison with
larger - scale emitters (Lorenzoni et al, 2007, in a UK study). From a
Swiss study, Stoll - Kleemann and colleagues (2001) argue that people
deny and displace individual responsibility for ameliorating climate
change in order to avoid conflicts between their environmental
attitudes and behaviours. These two studies suggest that political
messages encouraging individual action on the basis of climate change
knowledge may be undermined by individuals' awareness of the scale
of environmental problems and the 'weakness of a political strategy
that relies on individuals taking responsibility for solving environmental
problems' (Middlemiss, 2014: 938).
A number of scholars have used social practice theory to argue that
simply raising awareness of environmental concerns among the public
is unlikely to lead to widespread changes in everyday practices, and
can place unfair pressure on individuals. These scholars are mostly
located in high - consuming societies where policy makers call for 'low - 
carbon transitions' in everyday practices. They point out the difficulty
of changing practices that are embedded in everyday life through the
'nexuses of practices and material arrangements' that support human
existence in situated contexts (Schatzki, 2010: 129; see also Warde,
2005; Pink, 2015). Many scholars argue that the policy focus on
individuals serves to 'obscure the extent to which governments sustain
unsustainable economic institutions and ways of life, and the extent
to which they have a hand in structuring options and possibilities'
(Shove, 2010b: 1274). Shove and colleagues (2012) explore the social
and material elements that constitute everyday practices to argue for
an alternative practice - based approach to environmental governance
that attends to the interactions between the social and the material.
Others have likewise identified a disjunction between the calls for
reduced consumption and the principles of democratic consumer
capitalism that encourage high rates of consumption (for example,
Miller, 2012; Newell, 2012).
Changes in understandings of climate change practices
There is little research on how understandings of climate change
practices have shifted over time and so whether pro - environmental
messages delivered by climate change organisations, governments
and the United Nations produce the desired impact. Capstick and
colleagues (2015) attempted to provide insights into this issue by
bringing together the findings of five published studies and one new
study. They found that, from 1990 to 2010, there were three patterns.
First, discourses about the relevance of climate change to everyday life
had shifted so that more people are likely to see its relevance. Everyday
climate change practices are now considered 'appropriate or "normal"
conduct within a culture' (Capstick et al, 2015: 737). Second, ethical
principles about stewardship of nature, social justice and fairness
remained relatively stable, with some participants attributing 'lack of
pro - environmental behaviour' to 'personal deficiencies' (Capstick et al,
2015: 748). Finally, there were shifts in the belief that it is important
to take personal action to help allay climate change, which many have
come to consider reasonable and possible. These were, however, subtle
shifts, tempered by what participants considered external, structural
constraints on their lives (see also Shove et al, 2012; Agarwal, 2016).
Their findings are supported by a US study that found that the global
financial crisis led to a weakening in belief about climate change
(Scruggs and Benegal, 2012). Commitment to action over climate
change does not take a simple, upward trajectory, but is contingent
on perceptions of social circumstances.
One of the reasons why it may be difficult to persuade those in the
Minority world to reduce consumption, perhaps shifting their ethical
principles in order to do so, was identified by US scholars Schultz
and Zelezny (2003). They argued that environmental behaviours
have been marketed in ways that run counter to US values of self - 
enhancement in terms of materialism, pursuit of personal wealth and
self - interest, because the environmental movement in the US has
framed environmental actions as rooted in self - transcendent values.
In particular:
protecting the environment is framed as requiring sacrifice
 - conservation requires using less, simpler living, giving up
some of the comforts that are available, and incurring greater
inconvenience - for the sake of a broader goal. Such messages
would appeal to people who endorsed the new environmental
paradigm - people who rejected the life goals of materialism,
personal wealth, and success. However, for people who did not
endorse this emerging perspective, such messages would not be
persuasive. (Schultz and Zelezny, 2003: 131)
Notions of 'saving', 'helping' or 'protecting' the environment require
altruism, often at personal cost. Schultz and Zelezny suggest that
environmental messages need to be reframed to persuade US people
that they are in their self - interest.
Findings such as these indicate that dealing with climate change is not
simply an individual matter related to knowledge, but is embedded in
everyday life. As a result, social and material structures have an impact on
responses to climate change knowledge. In addition, if environmental
issues seem too weighty or distant, people find it overwhelming to
change their practices in line with climate change messages. They
may agree that human action needs to be taken to avoid climate
change but feel constrained from acting by their own circumstances,
self - interest or complex ethical positioning. Capstick and colleagues'
(2015) review showed that some people deal with the ethical issues
of climate change by viewing their actions in individualistic ways as
Minority world selfishness, without changing their behaviour. Given
these differences and the importance of recognising intersections
of material circumstances, structural constraints, ethical principles
and national discourses, it is important to learn more about how
people negotiate their understandings of climate change practices.
This book aims to make a contribution to such understandings by
focusing on everyday family lives and investigating how 'small' and
'big' environmental messages intersect to facilitate or limit agency in
relation to climate change action.
Futurity, families and children
In a review of environmental policy, Walker (2017) proposes that both
'climate change' as a globalising narrative and 'sustainable development'
as a policy agenda are premised around the necessity to act on future - 
oriented speculative scientific knowledge in the present in order to
mitigate as yet unknown environmental degradation in the future.
She suggests that the recourse to futurity is often expressed through
references to 'future generations', as seen in the preamble to the SDGs,
which states that sustainable development will 'benefit all, in particular
the children, youth and future generations of the world' (UNDESA,
no date). In these abstract formulations, children are made visible as
embodied future generations who are particularly vulnerable to the
effects of climate change, and who are responsibilised for making
'pro - environmental' changes in their everyday lives, including with
their families.
Climate change does have a disproportionate impact on children
and women globally (Agarwal, 1998; Haines et al, 2006). Children are
overrepresented in the global population suffering from diseases linked
to 'climate change' (Haines et al, 2006; UNICEF UK, 2013). They are
particularly represented, along with women, in fatality rates in 'natural'
disasters, and natural disasters are predicted to become more frequent
as the effects of climate change intensify (for example, IPCC, 2014).
The geospatial positioning of children in a world of uneven climatic
conditions and exposures to the negative impact of the natural world
means that children are differentially affected by events that are causally
linked to climate change. Their biological vulnerability intersects
with forms of structural disadvantage, including their generational
positioning, gender and socioeconomic status, further to disadvantage
some children in the face of environmental events.
Recognition of children's vulnerability, together with their
positioning as those expected to live longest with environmental
degradation, means that children are often treated, particularly in policy
reports, as signifiers of the need to take a moral stance for action on
climate change. For example, UNICEF UK (2013) describes climate
change as a 'children's challenge', making the ethical argument that
children are likely to outlive current generations of adults. The report
suggests that they have the most to gain from activities and policies
aiming to sustain environments that are particularly theirs and, as a
result, should be actively involved in these activities (see Evans and
Honeyford, 2012; Horton et al, 2013).
Children who attend schools have become central to environmental
governance in recent years. Children are expected to take knowledge
about environmental concerns from their schools into other spaces
of their everyday lives, influencing the practices of those around
them, partly through their 'pester power' (Satchwell, 2013: 298).
Environmental knowledge, gained through education, is expected to
cultivate 'environmental subjectivities' (Agarwal, 2005). Environmental
education has been presented as 'humanity's best hope and the most
effective means in the quest to achieve sustainable development'
(UNESCO, 1997: 16). Through the Decade of Education for
Sustainable Development (2005 - 14), led by the UNESCO,
governments have been called to 'integrate the principles, values and
practices of sustainable development into all aspects of education and
learning' so that students around the world may 'learn the values,
behaviour and lifestyles required for a sustainable future and for positive
societal transformation' (UNESCO, undated). As a result, recent years
have seen the introduction of initiatives including Sustainable Schools
and Eco - schools in the UK (Evans and Honeyford, 2012; Satchwell,
2013) and the National Green Corps in India (Ravindranath, 2007).
These policy framings indicate that children, as the 'next generation',
are expected to play a central role in climate change practices. As
knowing subjects with agency to enact and influence moral actions,
children are presented as 'agents of change' in their households,
communities and the wider sociostructural spaces in which their lives
are situated. Figure 1.1 (a stock image, designed for publicity and
purchase) represents this idea of children as the future of the planet,
with environmental issues apparently held in a child's fingers: they
are responsible for the sprouting of green leaves in the future, for the
continued health of birds and for policies such as energy from wind,
which is represented as sheltering the family who are away from their
detached home and car, balanced precariously on a twig.
Policy framings that foreground children are valuable in taking
seriously children's moral and social capacities. Such approaches fit with
developments in the sociology of childhood. However, they give little
consideration to how children as a generational group are frequently
disadvantaged in their attempts to negotiate and enact agency in
societies that are 'generationally ordered' in favour of adults (for
example, Alanen, 2009) and where parents frequently do not appreciate
children's attempts to teach them new environmental practices (Uzzell,
2016). This is one example of the 'un - interrogated assumptions,
rationales and technologies' found in environmental discourses,
which erode possibilities for action led by the 'environmental citizen'
(Oswell, 2013: 69).
There are, of course, strong ethical arguments for educating children
about environmental concerns, particularly in contexts of existing
structural vulnerability (for example, Horton et al, 2013). However,
as with adults, it cannot be supposed that education will automatically
produce changes in children's behaviour, or in the practices of the wider
households in which they live. Such expectations are unlikely to be met
if they fail to recognise the powerful challenges to sustainability present
in consumer - oriented societies, and children's structural positioning
in generationally ordered and socioeconomically structured societies.
Environmental practices designed to stave off climate change are
frequently also family practices. Families are implicitly at the heart
of many environmental policies and are frequently made responsible,
in policy and media discourse, for arresting climate change, and yet
there has been a surprising lack of attention to the complex relational
dynamics of family lives. Writing about the concept of 'family',
Edwards and colleagues (2012: 731) observe: 'Maintaining attention
to "families" is crucial in understanding people's senses of connection
and belonging in ways that stand over and above the sense of being
an "individual".'
To argue this is not to reify a particular concept of family with
all its 'normative baggage' (Morgan, 2013: 4). Rather, we need to
attend to the complexity and diversity of 'family' precisely to avoid
the ideological stereotypes of the environmentally engaged Minority
world, the white middle - class family and the good, 'green' parent
(Edwards et al, 2012; AbiGhannam and Atkinson, 2016). The ways in
which families negotiate their environments and issues of sustainability
from different socioeconomic positions and in different countries are
a central concern of this book.
A common world approach
The representation in Figure 1.1 (above) is an apt condensation of
approaches that assume that arresting climate change is in children's
hands. It also, however, condenses other categories that intersect with
age and generation in that it is racialised (depicting a white child's
fingers), depicts a presumably heterosexual, nuclear family and, from
the type of house and car, is apparently situated in the Minority world.
Environmental policy has been criticised for imposing a perspective
devised in, and for the interests of, the Minority world, with solutions
rooted in middle - class moral imperatives that have been questioned
for their relevance (including the relevance of their ethics) to low - 
income populations, especially in the Majority world (Guha, 2006;
Boddy et al, 2016).
A different approach is proposed by Taylor (2013) and others,
who advocate a common world perspective for understanding what
'environment' means for children and families. The notion of 'common
worlds' comes originally from Latour (2004) and avoids making a
distinction between human societies and natural environments, arguing
instead for taking a perspective that views agency as distributed and
collective. The common world approach aims to respond to ethical
questions raised by notions that we are now in an Anthropocene age,
a new geological epoch characterised by human overconsumption
and fossil - fuel dependence that has permanently damaged our
planet (Stromberg, 2013). It situates human lives as always entangled
with those of other beings, human and non - human, as well as with
non - living entities such as technologies, discourses and landforms
(Common Worlds Research Collective, 2014). In doing so, it enables
a holistic focus on aspects of children's lives and their interconnection
with other people and species. Taylor and Pacini - Ketchabaw (2015:
507) explain:
For a while now, we have been contemplating the pedagogical
implications and affordances of repositioning children within the
common worlds we co - inhabit and co - shape with a whole host
of other species, entities and forces.... In an attempt to move
beyond education's traditional focus on child development and
learning within an exclusively socio/cultural (in other words,
exclusively human) context ..., we deliberately reposition
children within the full, heterogeneous and interdependent
multispecies common worlds in which we all live. In line with
this shift beyond the social, or beyond the exclusively human, we
also move away from the individual child - centred pedagogies that
predominate in early childhood education. We focus, instead, on
the collective manners and means through which children learn
from engaging with other species, entities and forces in their
immediate common worlds. We call these collectively engaged
modes of learning 'common world pedagogies'.
The study that informs this book was conducted in one Majority
world country (India) and one Minority world country (the UK)
and takes an approach that views these as part of a common world,
resisting homogenised accounts of family lives in Minority or Majority
world contexts. Analysis of social change and the reproduction of
inequality can only be understood through attention to relationships
within local - in - the - global worlds (Jamieson and Milne, 2012). As
we discuss further in Chapter Two, inequalities, albeit very different
in scale, disproportionately affect children and families within both
India and the UK (for example, Agarwal, 1998; Ridge, 2013; UNDP,
2014; Eurostat, 2015). Environmental justice therefore depends on
recognition of inequalities within, as well as between, nation states
(Bulkely et al, 2014). Rising inequality - at global, national and local
scales - is a problem for everyone, not just for the poorest in society
(Wilkinson and Pickett, 2009; Koo, 2016).
Environmental affordances
One of the ways in which we have taken up the common world
approach discussed above is by considering the cross - cutting
commonalities and differences produced in different environments
(urban - rural) in intersection with different socioeconomic statuses and
nations (India and the UK) for families with a child of around 12 years
of age and so of different generations. The notion of 'environmental
affordances' gives some purchase on these commonalities and
differences in a common world perspective.
The psychologist James Gibson coined the term 'affordance' in what
he called an ecological perceptual theory. It seeks to analyse the ways
in which our interactions with our environments bring together the
possibilities we are able to perceive as well as what the environment
is like:
The affordances of the environment are what it offers the animal,
what it provides or furnishes, either for good or ill. The verb
to afford is found in the dictionary, but the noun affordance is
not. I have made it up. I mean by it something that refers to
both the environment and the animal in a way that no existing
term does. It implies the complementarity of the animal and
the environment. (Gibson, 1979/2015: 119)
According to Gibson's theory, we can only do things with the
environment if we perceive possibilities for doing them; it is thus about
the ways in which people are able to perceive what actions, objects
and the environment itself enables or 'affords' them. As the quotation
above makes clear, for Gibson affordances can be positive or negative.
For example, snow can be a source of leisure or danger, depending on
where it is, how much there is and whether it is stationary or moving
as an avalanche. The enjoyment or dislike of snow will also differ
between families and for different family members, depending on
whether they have sufficient warm clothes, their previous experience
of snow, and whether they can ski or have snowmobiles to allow them
to obtain food and other supplies. People of different age groups and
health statuses will also differ, and the affordance of snow for those
who have chosen to encounter snow for reasons of leisure is very
different from the affordance of snow for those who would prefer
to avoid it. Rautio and Jokinen (2015), for example, take a common
world approach to considering how snow - piles are a site of 'ongoing
mattering' to Finnish children.
Environments are, therefore, not neutral in that the same
environmental features produce different affordances for different
people and there are multiple and potentially contradictory affordances
from the same place or objects (Kyttä, 2003; Lewinson, 2011). Many
studies find that socioeconomic status has an impact on environmental
affordances in complex ways. For example, a Brazilian study by Freitas
and colleagues (2013) found that, perhaps not surprisingly, parents
from different social classes provided different play materials for their
toddlers within the home. However, socioeconomic status made no
difference to daily activities that were dependent on what parents could
do with children without having to draw on economic resources. It
is well established that parents from different socioeconomic groups
generally provide different environments for their children in terms of
housing, toys, books, leisure activities and the practices they facilitate
in relation to leisure and education (for example, Lareau, 2011). These
findings fit with Gibson's recognition that environmental affordances
are social processes so that objects or places are experienced in relation
to the communities in which they have meaning and affordances are
partly provided by, and can be learned from, other people. To this we
would add that they are psychosocial, bringing together psychological
resources and processes with the social.
Gibson's theory has been widely used since the 1970s to analyse
the transactional relationships between people and environments and
to study the ways in which the material environment is inextricably
linked with environmental psychology and social relations (Clark
and Uzzell, 2002; Uzzell, 2016). Much research has been done on
the psychosocial affordances of particular environments (for example,
Ghanbari - Azarneir et al, 2015). Children and young people can
shape environments to support their goals by realising, or actualising,
affordances (Clark and Uzzell, 2002). However, their gendered and
generational positioning in their environments affects how they use
and come to know their environments through embodied interactions
(Holloway and Valentine, 2000), which - along with exposure to
environmental 'bads' such as pollution - differ by socioeconomic status
and by global and rural - urban inequalities (for example, Wilson and
Snell, 2010).
More recently, there has been recognition from the fields of
environmental studies and family practices that environmentally
consequential family practices are emotionally invested and enmeshed
in everyday family routines of 'doing family' and being a good parent
(Jamieson, 2016). Hence, these practices are tied to understandings
of comfort and the consumption that is necessary for everyday care
of family members (Chappells and Shove, 2005). As Henwood and
colleagues (2016: 395) put it, 'everyday life is embedded in social
practices that are themselves components of wider high intensity
resource - using systems'.
Overview of the book
This book offers a fresh perspective on debates about climate change
response, to build a common world understanding of meanings of
environment in everyday lives and practices for families living in
contrasting geographic and socioeconomic contexts in India and the
UK. It questions the dominant moral narratives of environmentalism
that come from high - consuming societies in the Minority world.
By recognising the complex commonalities and differences between
families in India and the UK, the book aims to shift debates on
climate change and environments and understandings of children,
families, everyday practices, childhood and parenthood. It is informed
by a study that uses mixed qualitative methodologies linked through
narrative analysis.
Through innovative qualitative research, paying careful attention
to the narratives of different family members, the book examines
how urban and rural living, and relative poverty and affluence, shape
environmental practices. We see how the precarious conditions in
which some families live make abstract environmental messages seem
irrelevant, even as they view and deal with their environments in a
variety of ways. Equally, affluent families in both countries may be
well aware of moral environmental responsibilities, but feel bound
to practices of consumption that promote family wellbeing. In
differing ways across countries and contexts, the labour involved in
everyday family practices highlights the value of feminist perspectives
that foreground gendered intersectionality. The book also addresses
children's positioning in debates about climate change response - both
as the future generation living with the consequences of current and
historic practices, and as a target for environmental education, made
responsible for influencing family practices.
The research that informs this book is original in its approach, in
that it focuses on family practices examined using narrative analysis
of a range of innovative qualitative methods from a study that brings
together research on Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in India, with
research in Southern England in the UK. It takes a critically engaged
approach to analysing children's and parents' viewpoints as well as
family negotiations of their environments and the ways in which they
make these meaningful.
The book will develop four sets of conceptual themes:
• the importance of bringing together perspectives from the Majority
and Minority worlds fully to understand narratives relevant to
climate change and to contextualising environments by making
national, urban - rural and socioeconomic contexts visible;
• the inextricable linking of contexts and everyday environmental
practices;
• the inherent relationality (and generationality) of practices,
including relations between parents and children and local and
national environmental policies;
• a critical interrogation of the ways in which parents and children
are made responsible for climate change (causes and solutions).
In order to do this, we focus on gaining insights into families'
understandings and practices rather than on the science of climate
change or on policy analysis. Our main objective is to disrupt
simplistic, moralising constructions of environmentalism, and the false
binary between 'big' and 'small', or global and local environmental
concerns. We ask what environmental concern and environmental
practice look like in everyday family lives across the contexts of our
study. To this end, Chapters Three to Five consider the relationship
between environments and families' situated and everyday meaning - 
making practices and how these matter to children and parents and are
negotiated within families. Chapter Two outlines the study that informs
these analytic chapters and Chapter Six draws together the findings.
TWO
Ways of understanding family practices
across contexts
A common world approach to the study of family lives
The research presented in this volume forms part of a growing body of
work that is concerned to challenge the dominance of understandings
derived from the affluent Minority world, and develop new ways
of understanding childhood and family practices across contexts.
As discussed in Chapter One, we have drawn on the conceptual
framework of 'common worlds' (Taylor and Giugni, 2012; Taylor,
2013) - a framework that seeks to avoid the idealisation of childhood or
of a pristine nature, and thus 'seriously engages with children's relations
with human and more - than - human others, [in order to] take up the
ethical and political challenge of learning how to live well together
and to flourish with difference' (Taylor and Giugni, 2012: 109).
Punch and Tisdall (2012) have similarly argued for a 'cross - world'
approach to childhood research, criticising the 'false universalism' of
Minority world perspectives and highlighting the lack of research
dialogue across global contexts. To engage with the challenges raised
by these perspectives requires a 'methodological shift' (Taylor, 2013),
questioning the ways in which knowledge is (or should be) constructed.
Contrasting contexts: learning from difference?
The choice of India (specifically Andhra Pradesh/Telangana) and
the UK (Southern England) as the study countries for this project
was designed to challenge ideas of 'translatability' in cross - national
research, as well as neocolonial assumptions about north - to - south
(or Minority - to - Majority) directions of learning, predicated on 'a
utopian and internationalist tradition, where the aspiration remains
for the rest to catch up with the West' (Novelli, 2016: 851). We set
out to disrupt such assumptions, and examine the potential for shared
learning between two such different countries.
Lorenzoni and Hulme (2009) argued for in - depth cross - cultural
research in the context of climate change, but most research to
date has focused on high - or low - income countries and there is
little work that attempts to bring the two together. This is perhaps
understandable; contrasting social and demographic contexts are
inevitably challenging for comparability and translatability across very
different countries. However, a drive for comparability of contexts in
cross - national research can itself be problematic if it fails to attend to
difference and commonality at one and the same time. Regardless of
the apparent comparability (or not) of two countries, 'concepts cannot
be separated from contexts' (Hantrais, 2009: 72). What, then, is the
nature of knowledge derived from cross - national comparison - is it
overarching, or is it always locally situated? Perhaps the real danger in
cross - national research arises when we make assumptions of conceptual
equivalence (or difference) and neglect the particularity of concepts,
contexts and terminology. Moreover, a drive towards 'comparability'
or 'translatability' can neglect the potential for shared learning across
contrasting national contexts. Such truly cross - national learning seems
particularly relevant to the global challenges of climate change.
Conducting research in India and the UK created the possibility
for a different sort of comparison, holding cases in conversation with
each other to see what can be learned by considering similarities and
differences within and across countries. We sought to learn from the
diversity of family lives in relation to the environment, and to involve
families with very different economic, social, cultural and demographic
profiles. This approach to case - based research enables 'the application
of explanations that are particularistic to a set of conditions for a
particular person in a particular context and location that may not
be ideal typical for a country pattern' (Brannen, 2005: 2). The aim
was not to produce a representative sample, but rather to generate
cases that would be emblematic of diverse social and structural contexts
(Thomson, 2009).
Poverty has long been part of everyday life for many in India, but
the middle and upper classes have increasing consumer power. This has
been widely discussed in terms of the environmental impact of these
'new consumers' (for example, Anantharaman, 2014). Guha (2006) has
written of a rising class of 'omnivores' within India, whose lives are
increasingly differentiated in terms of possibilities for consumption in
comparison with those he terms 'ecological migrants' and 'ecosystem
people' (broadly, urban and rural people living in poverty). The Young
Lives study (on which our research built; see below) shows that - while
absolute poverty in Andhra Pradesh/Telangana has declined over
the past 15 years - there are enduring and in some cases widening
disparities in household consumption levels between social groups (for
example, Galab et al, 2011).
Studies exploring the lifestyles of India's middle and affluent classes
(who are predominantly based in cities) note growing polarities
between the everyday experiences of children occupying different
socioeconomic positions in cities, and how socioeconomic privilege
can afford some level of protection from urban environmental hazards
(for example, Mawdsley, 2004). Anantharaman's study of sustainable
waste management in Bangalore highlights disparities between the
lifestyles of the 'new' middle classes and urban people living in poverty,
arguing that attention given to 'pro - environmental' middle class - led
initiatives may 'laud the[se] often marginal voluntary actions ...
without bestowing the same 'status' to those who already live within
ecological bounds' (2014: 182) because they do not have the resources
to consume more. Mawdsley (2004: 92) notes a 'middle class tendency
to put the blame for environmental degradation such as deforestation
or air pollution squarely on the poor, and especially on population
growth'. Greenpeace India has also highlighted the 'growing schism
of carbon emissions between the two Indias [with] the poor bearing
the biggest climate impact burden and camouflaging the other India's
lifestyle choices' (Ananthapadmanabhan et al, 2007: 2).
In the UK, relative poverty mostly results from income inequalities.
At the time of our fieldwork, 15% of the national population (21%
after housing costs) were living in relative poverty1 (DWP, 2014), and
the global economic 'downturn' has widened income inequalities in
the UK, particularly for children and families (for example, Belfield
et al, 2014). Ridge's (2009) research shows how, in a relatively
wealthy society riven by inequalities, materially poor children may be
particularly disadvantaged as they grow up in social and institutional
cultures organised to suit the lifestyle and needs of those who are not
poor. She argues that children living in poverty in the UK are 'key
contributors to family life, playing an important role in mediating and
managing the experience of poverty' (Ridge, 2009: 34).
As in India, there are direct links between socioeconomic positioning,
consumption levels and carbon emissions in UK households. Research
commissioned by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation found that
energy emissions for the richest income decile in the UK were up
to three times those of households in the poorest decile (Preston et
al, 2013). This research, like that carried out by Greenpeace India
(Ananthapadmanabhan et al, 2007), draws attention to the need for
'common but differentiated' policy approaches, taking into account
local disparities in consumption levels and in meeting national targets
for climate change.
In both India and the UK, policies emerging from the national
'sustainable development' agenda often have an individualistic focus
that pays little attention to structural factors that may complicate
such changes. In the UK, government policies promoting 'pro - 
environmental behaviours' usually centre on minimising household
resource use, as seen in the identification of 'behavioural goals', such
as better energy management, minimising water use or using public
transport (Defra, 2008). In India, in addition to similar messages about
lowered resource consumption, encouraging individual engagement
in 'clean - up' activities has been a major area of focus in government
environmental policies in recent years, including in the Swachh
Bharat ('Clean India') initiative, which encourages citizens to pledge
two hours per week to promote public cleanliness. This initiative has
been targeted at all citizens, but particularly those living in poor and
unsanitary living conditions (Roy, 2014), whose everyday activities are
often vilified by other sectors of Indian society (for example, Ghertner,
2012). Roy (2014: unpaginated) notes that the Swachh Bharat 'pledge
... [includes] no mention of environmental pollution - whether of
water or air, caused, not so much by the average citizen but by heavy
industries, often transnational, and the land degradation that very often
accompanies schemes of "development"'.
Socioeconomic disadvantage can exacerbate environmental
vulnerabilities (Jamieson, 2016) and, as discussed in Chapter One,
studies in both countries have drawn attention to the ways in which
the most socioeconomically disadvantaged households may be
disproportionately exposed to environmental 'bads' such as pollution,
and risk of food insecurity and natural disasters (for example,
Deshingkar, 2012). Between 2005 and 2012, 1,049 and 11,130 per
million people in the UK and India respectively were recognised to
have been adversely affected by a 'natural' disaster (UNDP, 2014:
211 - 214). Notwithstanding the impact of such events on households in
both countries, this underscores the different degrees of environmental
vulnerability in the two countries.
The relationality and materiality of everyday family lives
To understand the relationship between family lives and understandings
and experiences of the environment, it is necessary to attend to
the materiality of everyday lives and practices (for example, Miller,
2012; Shove et al, 2012). But we do not only function as individuals;
practices, and decisions about practices, are relational, dynamic,
negotiated and maintained within wider social structures and within
everyday family lives. Analysis and interventions concerned with
climate change behaviour, nationally and internationally, have
predominantly been focused on institutional/systems - level change,
or on individual understandings and behaviours (see Shove, 2010b).
Between community and individual levels of analysis sits the family.
To understand the meanings of environment within families' everyday
lives, we must attend to family relationships, and family practices
(Morgan, 2013).
In our focus on the practice of everyday life, and its relationship with
the quotidian spaces in which families live, the study forms part of a
growing body of work concerned with understanding the everyday.
Scott (2009) notes that the study of everyday life can sometimes be
assumed to be trivial or mundane. Indeed, the very nature of the
everyday - trivial or mundane, and easily forgotten - makes it difficult
to research. Is everyday life, then, hidden from (the researcher's) view?
Hitchings (2011) commented that researchers studying everyday life
appear increasingly hesitant about using interview methods to study
routine practices, given the disconnections between what people do
and what they say they do. Ethnographic and particularly observational
approaches are often seen as better suited to studying the everyday,
precisely because everyday life is not readily disclosable. Miller (2012)
argues convincingly for the importance of long - term ethnographic
fieldwork as an essential method for understanding consumption in
everyday life, and Pink's (2015 [2009]: 19) 'sensory ethnography' is
designed to capture 'the multisensoriality of how people experience
their homes, material cultures and domestic products and practices'.
However, Hitchings (2011) argues that interviews are also worthwhile
in studying everyday lives and practices, because of what we do when
we tell of our everyday lives. The Energy Biographies research project
in the UK has also shown that people's environmental practices are
woven through their biographies (for example, Shirani et al, 2015).
A narrative approach
Narrative analysis, with its focus on meaning making, provides insights
into the meanings of practices and their social, spatial and temporal
nature (for example, Squire, 2013). Family narratives are always
situated within time and place, and in social, cultural and economic
contexts that contribute to the shaping of expectations, desires and
responsibilities across generations (Bertaux and Thompson, 1993).
A narrative approach is thus especially relevant to thinking about
cross - national research, because, as a case - based method, analysis is
contextualised for the individual or group that forms the case (Brannen
and Nilsen, 2005; Riessman, 2008).
While traditionally associated with 'talk - based' methodologies,
narrative researchers work with an increasingly varied range of data,
including visual material, everyday conversation and the artefacts of
everyday life (for example, Ochs and Capps, 2001; Luttrell, 2010;
Bell, 2013). In the context of the performative nature of the interview
interaction, narrative analysis also allows insight into the meanings
that are made of everyday lives and the ways in which individual and
family identities may be constructed. Analysis of 'small stories' of
everyday lives 'enables attention on how people build their narratives
and the performative work done by the narratives' (Phoenix, 2013:
73), providing insights into how personal and 'canonical narratives'
of socially and culturally accepted norms fit together (Bruner, 1991).
This conceptualisation looks beyond that which is neatly storied, to
attend to that which is absent, hesitant or incoherent, or which does
not 'fit' neatly with the dominant narrative in the interview (Phoenix,
2013). As Riessman (2003: 337) observes, 'informants negotiate how
they want to be known by the stories they develop collaboratively
with their audiences'.
The methodological process
The study's methodological approach was also informed by its
positioning within a methodological research programme, NOVELLA
(Narratives of Varied Everyday Lives and Linked Approaches),2
funded by the UK's Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC)
National Centre for Research Methods (NCRM) with linked
PhD studentships on some projects. The five NOVELLA studies
all combined methodological and substantive aims, re - using data in
different ways in order to study aspects of family lives where policy has
been concerned to exert influence. The projects all applied narrative
and linked analytic approaches, and shared an interest in illuminating
the (dis)connections between what people do and what they say they
do, in order to think about how practices are negotiated within families,
and how they relate to values, identities and society. The Family Lives
and the Environment study, on which this book is based, incorporated
a linked PhD studentship (Walker, 2016), which focused in particular
on children's perspectives and experiences, and informs this book.
The Family Lives and the Environment study aimed to disrupt
understandings of translatability and comparability (and directions of
learning) between Majority and Minority worlds. While funded and
led from the UK, the research sought to avoid treating the UK as the
'norm' to which the 'other' of India would be compared, and this
concern informed the research design and later analytic work. The
study was conducted in two phases:
• secondary analysis of eight family case studies drawn from a
qualitative subsample of the Young Lives3 study in Andhra Pradesh/
Telangana;
• multi - method interviews involving 24 families with very different
economic, social, cultural and demographic profiles in India
(Andhra Pradesh/Telangana) and the UK (Southern England).
Learning from the Young Lives study
A crucial first step was to build collaboration between researchers
with expertise in childhood and family lives in India, and those with
equivalent expertise in the UK, and we did this through collaboration
with researchers involved in the Young Lives study. We were concerned
that cross - national expertise should inform all aspects of the research,
from designing methods to interpreting data from both countries, so as a
team, we were looking from the inside and the outside, and questioning
that which might otherwise be taken for granted. Collaboration was
funded within the research process, building on existing research
relationships, and linking the core UK research team (Janet Boddy,
Ann Phoenix, Catherine Walker and, for the first part of the research,
Natasha Shukla) with Young Lives researchers Uma Vennam, Madhavi
Latha and Renu Singh in India, and Virginia Morrow, Gina Crivello, Jo
Boyden and, for the first part of the research, Emma Wilson in the UK.
Young Lives is an international longitudinal cohort study of
childhood poverty, involving a 'pro - poor' sample of approximately
12,000 families in four countries: Ethiopia, India, Peru and Vietnam.
The Indian sample is based in Andhra Pradesh/Telangana, adjoining
states in South - Eastern India, which together have a population of
85 million people. The research started in 2001 - 02 as a child - focused
household survey; a qualitative longitudinal component was added
in 2006 and is designed to complement and extend the quantitative
cohort study, using a multi - method approach to examine how poverty
interacts with other factors at individual, household, community and
intergenerational levels to shape children's life trajectories over time.
The Young Lives qualitative longitudinal research aims:
to capture both what we as researchers assume to be relevant and
important (e.g. the move from one school to a different school,
or death of a parent) and what our research participants view
as important (e.g. a child describing as a 'turning point' the day
when he was given his own small plot of land to cultivate on
the family farm). (Crivello et al, 2013: 2)
The qualitative longitudinal research has involved 200 children (and
their caregivers) across the four study countries - including 48 in
Andhra Pradesh/Telangana - and includes an older cohort (aged 12 - 13
years at the time of the first interview) and a younger cohort (aged
6 - 7 years at the time of the first interview).
Our joint work began with the core UK team learning from the
Young Lives qualitative methodology, before conducting a case - based
narrative secondary analysis of interviews from eight family case studies
(four boys and four girls, living in rural and urban contexts) from the
Young Lives qualitative subsample in India. These eight cases were not
intended to be representative of Young Lives families, either in India or
more generally. Cases with the potential to inform our understanding
of family practices and everyday lives as they relate to the environment
were drawn from the older cohort sample. 'Environment' was broadly
defined to range from everyday local environments to major events
and concerns, including environmental shocks such as drought and
floods. In - depth case - based analysis, of interviews with caregivers and
children over three rounds of data collection, was supplemented with
contextual reading of group interviews with children, and interviews
with community leaders. This secondary analysis was methodologically
important in sensitising the UK research team to the Andhra Pradesh/
Telangana context and in drawing attention to the ways in which
experiences and understandings of 'environment' (and environmental
concerns) were woven into narratives within family members' accounts
of their lives (Boddy, 2014a; Morrow et al, 2014; Shukla et al, 2014).
This early work formed the basis of methodological development
for subsequent fieldwork with a new sample of families in India and
the UK.
New data collection
Piloting and methodological development
The new data collection - the material that forms the focus of this
volume - built on the Young Lives methodology in developing a
multi - method approach to learn about family lives. A challenge in
researching the everyday and habitual is that many things people do
regularly are taken for granted, given little thought and not readily
remembered. From the outset, we planned to supplement interviews
with visual and other ethnographic methods, including photography,
building a 'mosaic' of information (after Clark, 2004) in order to
capture information about families' everyday lives in time. In this
approach, we were informed by methods used by Young Lives, such
as community mapping and story completion (for example, Vennam
et al, 2010; Crivello et al, 2013), as well as by work within visual
methodology (for example, Luttrell, 2010) and sensory ethnography
(Pink, 2009).
Following initial methodological development and exploratory
piloting in England, the core UK team (Boddy, Phoenix, Walker and
Shukla) visited Andhra Pradesh/Telangana, and worked intensively
with the Indian team (Vennam and Latha) to develop and pilot
methods over a period of about 10 days; we carried out role play
together, observed each other's pilot interviews and discussed each
other's fieldnotes as methods were developed and trialled. By the
end of this intensive period of joint work, we had agreed a sampling
strategy and set of methods and the UK team had learned something
of the contexts in which the Indian fieldwork would be done. The
UK researchers then took the methods trialled in India and spent a
short period conducting further piloting in England, before returning
to India for fieldwork; the final phase of data collection took place in
the UK.4 This collaborative process was crucial to the success of the
project. It ensured that expertise in the Andhra Pradesh/Telangana
context was integral to the research design and implementation, and
that (following from the secondary analysis of Young Lives data) the
Andhra Pradesh/Telangana context (rather than, as is usually the case,
the UK) was our starting point for understanding family lives in relation
to their environments.
The sample
The sampling strategy was designed to incorporate intersecting
structural diversities that would ensure contextual variety in children's
and families' experiences and understandings of 'environment'. We
worked in four different locations - London and rural Southern
England in the UK, and Hyderabad and rural Andhra Pradesh/
Telangana in India - to incorporate geographical variation (urban
and rural).
London and Hyderabad are cities of similar sizes, each with a growing
population of around eight million residents at the last Census counts
(Government of India, 2011a; ONS, 2012). Along with overcrowding,
air pollution is a concern in both cities (Defra, 2014; Guttikunda and
Kopakka, 2014). Growing inequalities in household income have
been noted in both cities, along with disparities in residents' access
to safe and affordable housing. Fourteen of the 20 local authorities
with the highest rates of child poverty across the UK are in London
(End Child Poverty, 2014). Around 35% of the urban population of
Andhra Pradesh (a third of whom live in or around Hyderabad) were
reported to live in 'slums' at the most recent Census, often without
access to basic services (Government of India, 2011b). Meanwhile,
international investment has led to Hyderabad's rebranding as a 'global
knowledge centre' and the development of formerly peripheral areas
for those working in the city's expanding software campuses, research
institutions and financial service centres (Rao, 2007).
The relatively low rural population density in England, along with
more open spaces, higher air quality and the perceived safety of rural
life, are often considered to make rural areas in England favourable to
childhood (for example, Tyrrell and Harmer, 2015). UK - wide Census
data from 2011 show that just 3.4% of the economically active rural
population worked in the agriculture, forestry and fishing sectors
(ONS, 2013). In contrast, agriculture is the main livelihood for the
majority of rural households in Andhra Pradesh/Telangana, and many
children engage in agricultural work (Morrow and Vennam, 2012;
Galab et al, 2011). Recent years have seen persistent crop failures
across many parts of Andhra Pradesh/Telangana, including in the
region in which research for this study was carried out (for example,
Galab et al, 2011).
We recruited a volunteer sample through schools, targeting children
in school Years 7 and 8. In each country we approached schools with
different characteristics (including fee structures, the proportion of
children in receipt of free school meals in England, and location) as a
way of incorporating socioeconomic variation into the sample. While
relative poverty and affluence are of course very different in the two
countries, the approach was designed to diversify the sample, and avoid
a simplistic binarising of the global north and global south.
We interviewed 12 families in India (Andhra Pradesh/Telangana)
and 12 in England (see Table 2.1). Most 'index' children (those who
were the main focus and from whom we started to recruit the rest
of the family) in the sample were 11 or 12 years old at the time of
the research, although one child in the Andhra Pradesh/Telangana
sample was 14. In focusing on this age group, the research built on
understanding generated from our work with the Young Lives data,
when children in the first round of qualitative interviews were of a
similar age. It also allowed us to engage with the negotiation of family
practices during a life stage when children in the two countries are
facing changing expectations, for example in relation to autonomy
and responsibility, and so is particularly relevant when thinking about
children's responsibilisation in relation to climate change adaptation
and mitigation (Uzzell, 2016).
Methods
To build a holistic view of family experiences and generational
understandings, the study used mixed methods that crossed home
and school. These were multi - sited activities incorporating mobile
methods (see below), allowing insight into embodied understandings
of practice including how messages and practices travel across spaces.
Working with family group, caregiver - child, individual caregiver and
individual child interviews illuminated the ways in which narratives
of environment and of family practices are co - constructed, negotiated
and resisted within families. It enabled accounts to be analysed 'in the
context of participants, the worldview of the interviewer, and the
relationships between family members and between the interviewer
and the family' (Beitin, 2012: 245).
Interviews with families
Three sets of interviews were conducted with each family over a
period of approximately two weeks.
Visit 1 involved a family group interview, with the index child
and everyone in the household who wished to be involved. This first
interview gathered contextual information about the family's situation
and daily practices, and families constructed a joint map of places that
feature in their lives (encountered frequently or regularly, or considered
important). Finally, they responded to a short vignette designed to
illuminate the ways in which environmental choices and practices
might be negotiated within the family. At the end of the interview,
families were given disposable cameras (one each for the primary
caregiver and the target child, and a third camera for the rest of the
family to use as they wished). They were asked to take photographs
over seven days to help us to understand what 'environment' means
in their everyday lives, including pictures of places, people or objects,
and encompassing 'likes' and 'dislikes'.
Visit 2 was carried out at least one week later, and had two
components. The caregiver and child (and anyone else in the family
who wanted to come) took part in a walking or driving interview in
their local area. Families were forewarned of this request at the end
of visit 1, and so had time to plan where they wanted to go, drawing
on the family map. This mobile interview was designed to generate
embodied understandings of the meanings of places for family members
that would not be available to researchers through talk alone. The
visit also involved individual interviews with the caregiver and child,
where environmental concerns and understandings could be discussed
in more detail, and in ways that might not be possible in the group
context (for example, where family hierarchies might make it difficult
for children to speak, or where participants wanted to raise topics that
were not felt suitable for discussion across generations). At this visit
we also collected the cameras.
Visit 3 took place once the photos had been developed, and
involved photograph elicitation interviews. Individual interviews were
conducted with the caregiver and child, and included the selection
of five pictures to discuss with the rest of the family; meanwhile
other family members separately chose three photographs from the
third camera. This was followed by a family group interview, which
involved a discussion of the selected photos, and a final choice of the
three that best conveyed what was important to the family in their
everyday lives and environments.
School visit
In addition to the family interviews, group interviews were conducted
in the schools of participating children. These comprised a group
activity with the children who took part in the family research and up
to four peers. The children created and discussed maps representing
their journeys to school, and discussed a hypothetical vignette and
school - based environmental education activities. Where possible, the
researchers also carried out a walking interview around the school
with the children, and conducted a contextualising interview about
the school with a member of staff.
The researchers kept detailed fieldnotes about each research contact
with family members and schools.
Analytic approach
Interviews were transcribed5 and where necessary translated into
English. Research activities were analysed by the research team using a
case - based approach; we analysed themes and narratives within family
cases, before looking thematically across cases, and then at narratives
within themes (see Riessman, 2008). School interviews were analysed
in conjunction with children's data (from individual and group
interviews). Analysis moved backwards and forwards between data from
families in India and the UK, in different schools, and in urban and
rural contexts. If we had simply compared across contexts or countries,
we would - inevitably - have failed to compare like with like, or would
have simplified dynamic and intersectional experiences, obscuring the
situated complexity that we aimed to illuminate. Instead, the analytic
approach was designed to help theorise the complexity of family lives
and environments, without losing sight of specific socioeconomic,
cultural and historical contexts (Jamieson and Milne, 2012).
Crossing countries and languages has particular implications for
narrative analysis in several respects. There are questions about
understanding the cultural and contextual nature of genre story
forms, given the differences in cultural formation and contextual
understanding of different members of the research team. In addition,
narrative analysis usually focuses closely on the particular linguistic
devices used in story - telling (for example, Riessman, 2003), but analysis
of choice of words, and of emphasis or absence in accounts, is much
more complex when interviews are read in translation and across
contexts. The partnership between Indian and UK researchers in this
regard was of critical importance, and 'translation' within interviews
often involved crucial contextualising explanations. Where interviews
in India were in Telugu (or rarely Hindi) there were two layers of
5 The key transcription conventions for the extracts presented in this book are
as follows: (.) and (...) indicate shorter and longer pauses in speech; [...]
indicates that text has been edited ; [= and =] indicates areas of overlapping
talk; and italics denote emphasis in the tone of speech.
translation - in the interview itself and at the transcription stage. The
partnership between Indian and UK researchers was not restricted to
the interview itself. The team's discussion of fieldnotes helped to build
understanding throughout the research process in India. Financial and
practical constraints meant that it was not possible to involve the Indian
researchers in the UK fieldwork, but, in line with our objective of
looking from the inside and outside in both countries, Vennam and
Latha participated in the analysis of the UK data.
In the chapters that follow, the material we present has been
translated into English where necessary. In order to be able to present as
many interview extracts as possible in a short book, we have generally
omitted interviewer interjections that were facilitative fillers such as
'mmm', 'okay' or requests for clarification. We have also omitted some
of what participants said to save space; these omissions are marked by
square brackets [...].
Ethics considerations
The research was conducted subject to ethics approval from an Institute
of Education Faculty Research Ethics Committee (FREC Approval
FCL 420), an approval that addressed considerations including freely
given and appropriately informed consent; confidentiality (including
limits on confidentiality if there was concern about risk of harm); the
right to withdraw data; and plans for anonymisation and archiving.6
The approach followed the guidelines of the ESRC Framework for
Research Ethics,7 and was additionally informed by the Young Lives
guidelines on ethics in research with children (Morrow, 2013) as well
as Boddy's (for example, 2014b) work on this topic. In negotiating
consent, we followed the principle that, if the 'index child' in the
family did not want to take part, we could not work with the family.
Beyond that, we emphasised that individual family members should
each make their own decision about whether or not to take part, and
a separate consent process was carried out with each family member.
A few other specific ethics considerations relating to the research focus
and methodology are worth highlighting here.
Narratives are always relational, and in framing the study's focus on
'family lives and the environment' we inevitably invoked expectations
about our positioning as researchers. The research interview is a very
particular form of conversation, and can be seen as a site of managed
'family display' (Finch, 2007), with narratives co - constructed for (and
by) the interviewer in the context of that interview (Riessman, 2008;
Phoenix, 2013). As middle - class researchers conducting research for
which we have used carbon - intensive practices (such as long - distance
air travel between the UK and India), we are in no position to claim a
moral high ground in relation to environmentalism and we emphasised
this in our explanations of the research and throughout fieldwork
interactions. But families may have felt such expectations nevertheless,
and been motivated to align their accounts with morally framed
'canonical' narratives of environmental concern. Some did not; instead,
they eschewed engagement with such narratives or explained their
scepticism about environmental practices. Narrative analysis attends
to contradictions and commonalities, within and between families'
and family members' accounts, and thus it is possible to examine the
work that is done by family narratives, as well as the implications of
morally framed conceptualisations of environmentalism for the families.
The study's methodological focus on the negotiation of family
narratives and practices also revealed particular ethical tensions that
arose from the effectiveness of the methods. In both countries, there
were occasional tensions in family discussions - relating to who got to
speak, or whose photograph was (or was not) selected in the final family
photograph discussion. These moments are ethically sensitive precisely
because they revealed family power dynamics (Robson et al, 2007), but
we also have to reflect on the extent to which they were produced by
the research, or merely observed through our work. As Kofoed and
Staunaes (2015: 36) observe, when dealing with the everyday realities
of relationships there is a need for 'ethical hesitancy', 'a place where
there is doubt and pain. ... This kind of ethical hesitancy moves along
the same tightrope between knowledge and non - knowledge, between
certainty and uncertainty. ... [it requires] an embodied thoughtfulness
that includes discomfort and uncertainty'.
In summary
This book is concerned with family lives across contexts and with
the negotiated and dynamic complexity of childhood and of family
lives. It has been informed by a common - world approach that seeks
to avoid the unhelpful binarisations of 'big' and 'small' or 'global'
and 'local' environments, which act as a barrier to understanding
(Massey, 2004; Urry, 2011). It aims to understand interconnected
lives in 'a heterogeneous, thrown together and precarious world'
(Taylor and Giugni, 2012: 109). The methods outlined in this chapter
were therefore driven by three linked imperatives. First, we set out
to disrupt assumptions of Minority - to - Majority world learning,
and homogenising notions of cross - national in/comparability,
through a methodological approach designed to create an analytic
conversation across diverse contexts within and between India and
the UK. Second, we focused on the relationality and materiality
of everyday lives, devising a multi - method approach in order to
capture the interconnectedness of family lives and practices. Finally,
by attending to the ways in which individual and collective narratives
are negotiated, resisted and developed, the methods were designed to
build understanding of situated, dynamic and relational complexities,
and of the ways in which space, place and time intersect with meanings
of environment in the everyday lives of children and families.
THREE
Environmental affordances and the
work of everyday family lives
In air pollution patients and the public have no impact on that.
You are breathing the air that is out there. You can stop eating,
but you can't stop breathing. (Darzi, 30 January 2017: BBC
Radio 4)
"We cannot keep our windows and doors open because the
VMC [Vijayawada Municipal Corporation] illegally keeps
burning plastic and other non - biodegradable waste," said K
Sujatha, a resident. [...] The residents had been reeling under
the stench emanating from the dump and the resultant air
pollution over the years. The unscientific disposal of garbage
coupled with the greedy tactics of rag pickers who set on fire
the mounds of garbage to extract metal scrap is posing serious
health hazards to the residents of the locality, lamented Taxpayers
Association secretary M V Anjaneyulu. (The New India Express,
13 February 2017)
Introduction
To understand how 'big' environmental concerns and everyday 'small'
environments are inextricably linked, and so how climate change can
be addressed, it is crucial to consider how everyday environments
are experienced and lived. Agarwal (1998, 2016) challenges the idea
that there is a clear divide between everyday environments and the
more global environments that are the focus of dominant policy and
media narratives of environmental concern, noting that environmental
issues are rooted in the materiality of everyday family lives and are
differentiated by social class, caste, affluence, gender and location.
Since families live in diverse material circumstances, environmental
messages are likely to be received in different ways and to have varied
impacts on different families and children. This chapter, and the one
that follows, present analyses that show differences and commonalities
in what everyday environments 'afford' to families living in varied
socioeconomic contexts in India and the UK. We analyse the
narratives of families for whom everyday life is deeply patterned
by the environments in which they live, alongside those for whom
having the socioeconomic resources to control their environments is
mundane. In the former case, environment is a consistent character
in everyday family stories because it directly affects their homes,
jobs or food supplies. In the latter, control of the environment is
narrated as routinely deployed in the service of care for wellbeing and
consumption, and environment is a more occasional, and sometimes
stylised, character in family stories. The families' everyday practices are
inextricably linked to what is afforded as 'big' and 'small' environments
connect. The pleasures, risks and drudgeries of everyday lives inform
the meanings of environment for different family members. These
environmental affordances are generational and link with parents' hopes
and fears for children's future lives (see Chapter Five).
This chapter first considers the sort of environmental issues that
families in India and the UK had to negotiate: sometimes routinely
(for example, pollution and danger from road traffic) and sometimes
unpredictably (for example, flooding and other extreme weather
events). It then addresses the complexity of the intermeshing of
environmental concerns and practices by focusing on families who
were so preoccupied with caring for their families and the daily grind of
family maintenance that this superseded concern with climate change.
Environmental issues in everyday lives
The children and adults in our sample were frequently nuanced
about what constitutes environment in their everyday lives. In rural
England, the multi - layered complexity, as well as the binarisation,
of 'environment' as a concept was eloquently captured by Jack, with
his younger brother Lucas, at the beginning of their family group
interview:
Jack: '[Y]our environment would be where you live and
things you do and where you go. And I think the
environment would probably [...] it could mean
two things. Environment could mean um (...) like
the (...) like na, the natural world. Or it could also
mean just um ...'
Lucas: 'Birds and stuff like that.'
Jack: 'It could, it just could, could mean the world as a
whole or it could, or it could mean um (...) just
the human side of it. That (...) if you're speaking
about someone's environment it probably is just
(...) it's, it's, it's not the na, it wouldn't be like the
natural world as a whole. It would just be (...) um
(...) where, where you live and (.) what you do ...
and um what affects you.'
Jack's mother, Mary, went on to expand this definition with an
emphasis (common to many families across contexts in our study) on
attachment to place:
Mary: 'No, but plus the I suppose (...) your mental
environment and whether you're (...) feeling ...
Like we were talking about living in [name of
town], and I felt suffocated there. And now, even
though actually I probably don't do anything
particularly differently, um (...) being here I just
feel more (...) at ease in my surroundings. And
(...) I feel more of a connection I suppose (...) to
(...) where we live and (...) does that make sense?'
One of the difficulties families face as they negotiate environmental
affordances is the multiplicity of everyday environmental issues that
they might encounter. These can seem so disparate that it is difficult to
see the relevance of climate change and hard to perceive anything that
they might do about it. For example, some of the rural Indian families
faced apparent contradictions between both increased flooding and
increased drought. Daya Vathi (the mother of 12 - year - old Hemant)
encapsulated the experiences of many of the rural Indian families
who took part in the study as she discussed the family's experiences
of drought and heavy, untimely, rains, both of which have proved
problematic for them as a farming family.
Interpreter/interviewer: 'One problem is typhoon. What other
problem this area faces? Is there any drought
problem here?'
Daya Vathi: 'Water tankers are coming to supply water. It
doesn't seem like there is drought.'
Interpreter/interviewer: 'Water tankers start coming only when there
is drought. Since when are the tankers coming?'
Daya Vathi: 'It is only this year water tanker came here. There
is no water in the canals either. We had tough time
watering the crops. [...].'
Interpreter/interviewer: '... how do you feel about it?'
Daya Vathi: 'To the people who depend on agriculture this
is the biggest worry. The rains are not falling on
time. And then, it rains around the harvesting
period. Due to untimely rains, the crop which is
ready for harvesting gets ruined.'
Rural Andhra Pradesh/Telangana is flood prone and there have been
unexpected extreme weather events in the forms of cyclones, drought
and floods that may be a consequence of climate change. Three years
previously, Daya Vathi and Hemant's family had been temporarily
evacuated from their family home because they had been flooded,
despite the fact that their house was raised off the ground. Many
of the Andhra Pradesh/Telangana rural families explained that they
prepared for flooding by storing food and other valuable objects in
secure places, by strengthening the structure of the home and raising
objects off the ground.
Flooding has increasingly become an environmental issue in the UK.
None of the UK families in the study had been flooded, and when
flooding in UK and global contexts was mentioned, it was generally
framed as a distant and transient concern. For example, in London,
Phoebe's mother Joanna explained:
Joanna: 'You hear about it when it's sort of worldwide
issues, you hear about it on the news and whatever.
But (...) this sounds really awful - because it
doesn't have an immediate impact on us you don't
tend to do anything about it. You know, obviously
you see like about people flooded, even in a small
sense (...) well smaller sense at Christmas in this
country [...] Then you see bigger, you know, huge
floods in other countries. Then you see droughts
and you see ... And you, you do think, oh, it must
be awful. But (...) I think it's (...) where it doesn't
have an immediate impact you don't really do an
awful lot about it. Which sounds really terrible,
but I think that's the way most people are.'
Some of the UK rural families were aware that they lived close to
flood plains, where family homes not far from them had been flooded
in recent years:
Meg (Amy's mother): 'And the other great thing about [name of
village] is it doesn't flood ... Where of course
[name of town], you've got so much ... of the
[town] area that is, is um ...'
Interviewer: 'They've had flood warnings frequently.'
Meg: 'Oh yeah! Yeah. The river's really high there.
And it, and it's just, it's so nice not to have to
worry about that side of things really. Because
it, it is a real problem in [town] for certain areas.
[...] Yeah. I, I think that it's quite (...) we're very
lucky here that (...) you know, we've got some
lovely buffer zones around us and (...) you know,
it's ... The, the awful things that happen out there
don't really affect us here. I mean, even, even the
global warming and the issues with flooding and
stuff in [name of town] ... we're, we're never on
flood watch here. So even ...'
Interviewer: 'So that picture you took - you're not standing
on that bridge thinking ...'
Meg: 'Well, that, I mean, we're standing looking at it
kind of going, goodness, isn't it high. But actually
it's not, is our home going to flood? ... It's (...)
oh, no, will I not be able to get to work through
the flood water? (...) You know, it's, it's will it stop
the buses?'
Meg attributed flooding to global warming, but given that their house
was on higher ground than those flooded, she was sanguine about the
floods, expressing pleasure that they were in no danger from the river.
Changing weather patterns in Andhra Pradesh/Telangana are related
to another environmental issue, namely the prevalence of snakes in
a region with a high rate of snakebite mortalities (Gupta and Peshin,
2014), where children are particularly at risk following flooding
(Bertho et al, 2012). The example below, from Chandhrasekhar's
parents, condenses the issues raised by various Andhra Pradesh/
Telangana rural families:
Ananda Rao (father): 'There are lots of snakes around this area. We
worry about children and people getting bitten by
them. That's biggest problem for us. [...].'
Interviewer/interpreter: 'You said that there are more snakes around
this area. Why there are so many snakes here?'
Sumathi (mother): 'The lake dries up in the summer. When it gets
dry, the soil on the lake bed starts cracking up and
heat starts emitting from those cracks. Not able to
bear the heat, the snakes come out of that area.'
Ananda Rao: 'It is not just because of the lake, there is lot of
empty places around here where the weeds grow
uncontrollably.'
Concern about the prevalence of snakes provides a good example of the
interlinking of place, environmental events, human action and families'
perceptions of what they can do about environmentally produced
concerns for children's safety (that is, environmental affordances). As
Sumathi pointed out, weather conditions - including cyclones, floods
and drought - all played a part, as did human action, as Ananda Rao
indicated in his reference to neglect of vegetation. His understanding
was shared by others who discussed snakes in Andhra Pradesh/
Telangana, and is consistent with research (for example, Gupta and
Peshin, 2014). Chandhrasekhar's mother, Sumathi, had herself been
bitten by a snake, and treated by a traditional healer.
Flooding and fears of snake bites were not central to the lives of many
of the families in the study. Other environmental issues were faced by
many participants in both India and the UK; in particular, high traffic
levels made roads hazardous for children and produced air pollution.
For Gomathi's family in Hyderabad, the intensity and relentlessness
of local traffic came up as a source of danger in each interview, and
meant that Gomathi was not sent out to do things that required
crossing the road. Traffic dangers also restricted where she could play,
and so her friendships were primarily with other children in the same
apartment block. She took photos of play equipment in the apartment
block's basement carpark, an example of how institutions outside the
family affect environmental affordances: in this case, the apartment
management's intervention creates an environmental affordance for
resident children's play when heavy traffic renders outside play too
dangerous.
Pollution also featured in the narratives of several UK families.
In London, Solomon's mother, Angela, highlighted the additional
vulnerability to pollution associated with medical conditions, including
Solomon's and her own asthma. While the housing estate where the
family live has green spaces (highlighted in her photos), she described
adapting her practices to minimise pollution coming into their home,
avoiding opening the windows and doors in the 'rush - hour' period
when traffic is heavy: "And sometimes when you open the windows
or door (...) burning my lungs. [...] You can smell (...) the fumes
coming up."
Also in London, pollution appeared as a more unusual affordance
for Marnie's father, Tony, in discussing his motorbike:
Tony: 'Well the other thing about environment as well
is living in London ... Because (...) maybe not
so much for these guys, but I was a biker up
until about a year ago. And I know what the
environment's like because I had to breathe it in
when I was biking ...'
Interviewer: 'And what was it like?'
Tony: 'Pretty horrible at times. And according to my
wife, apparently I used to smell a lot when I came
in ... Well you do. You smell of bike and fumes
...'
Saskia (mother): '... it's like a combination of ... It's like, you know
if you walk into a mechanic's workshop, that oily
kind of ... thing ... He'd take his head gear off and
he'd have actually black where he'd been driving
around.'
The permeation of the car into rural as well as urban areas meant that
traffic was not only an urban issue. Oliver's mother, Vicky, discussed
the roads through the beautiful British countryside near her home:
Vicky: 'Yeah, it is quiet. The only problem is that people
use this as a cut - through [...] And they tend not
to respect the speed limit (...) You can tell the cars
who lives here (.) and who doesn't ... because of
the speed they're driving (...) But the commuters
just sort of cut through and steam through. And
um (...) that is a bit of a problem. So (...) I wouldn't
let them out (.) er, once it started to get dark (...)
So if they go they have to go in the daylight (...) It's
got to be absolutely full - blown daylight otherwise
they can't go (...) Because also it's pitch - black.
When it's dark it's absolutely pitch - black around
here; there's no streetlights or anything.'
Angela, Tony and Vicky (above) indicated that they have taken action
in response to traffic dangers (pollution and road safety). Their small
stories show how people respond to what the environment affords
using the resources available to them. In both India and the UK, more
affluent families were able to protect themselves from the environmental
hazards of pollution and traffic by using cars as a necessary practice
of care. Vicky's children do not have to walk the dog, or walk back
from school in the dark, and Tony can afford to stop motorbiking to
work. His daughter Marnie depicted her family's dependence on the
car in the photographs she took and in her interview (see Figure 3.1).
In Hyderabad, Amrutha's father, Vijay, discussed the necessity
of driving because of problems he saw with the public transport
infrastructure, and explained how he protected against pollution when
driving in the city:
Vijay: 'So to be honest I don't like to switch on the AC
[air conditioning] when I travel out but pollution
inevitably makes me close the doors and switch on
the AC. So again that's the other huge uh, burden
on the resources.'
In contrast to these accounts of urban car use, the high carbon
demands of country living were highlighted by Antonia's father, Hugh.
Their family lived in inner - London, where both parents worked in
professional occupations and the children attended their local state
school. They emphasised their urban identity, and in highlighting
the affordances of their city environment, Hugh told a 'small story',
which imagined an alternative rural life:
Hugh: 'But I would say that you know part, you
know part of the reason that we live in this
kind of environment is because we like urban
environments and social diversity. Um (...) but
also (...) part, part of the reason is that we like
living a (...) a sort of (...) you know, in a way that's
(...) sustainable. [...] In so far as our environment
influences these sorts of decisions, um (...) you
know, I think we take the view that your carbon
footprint in the (...) countryside (...) is very
much greater. Because probably we'd have two
cars, probably we'd both drive to work. Probably
would drive our kids to everything that they did.
Probably would have to drop them off at school by
day, every day by car. You know, probably would
live in a big, detached house, which would have
much higher fuel bills. All of that kind of stuff. So
it's not prime reason that we live in the city but
it's not (...) irrelevant. [...] The way that you can
live in an urban environment is um (...) is in a way
that has a relatively low environmental impact.'
Hugh's account of the necessity of rural car use was echoed by Rosie's
mother, Sally, who told the story of their "forced" decision to buy a
"ridiculous" four - by - four vehicle after being snowed into their rural
village:
Sally: 'I mean we're not into having four - wheel drive
necessarily, but someone said to me without one
you won't be able to get to school ... [...] So we've
been sort of (.) forced into one of these ridiculous
four - by - fours, which (.) everyone at the school
seems to have [laughs]. Which is a shame; we're
in this little village and we shouldn't really need
to run around in big cars. But, but it does mean
that we can, I can do a lot of the drives without
worrying about being stuck. So that's a bit of an
impact (...) environmentally.'
Sally went on to detail the utility of her car in coping with the journey
to school, before ending with a coda, justifying their choice of school
(and so the need for the car):
Sally: 'But you know the, the, the, the school I think is,
is wonderful for the children. One of the reasons
we chose it was because it looks out. [...] And for
argument's sake where Rosie's classroom is, the
view she has is just stunning. And I mean, that's
got to give you a sense of wellbeing when you
work - you know, you work in an environment
like that.'
In ending the narrative this way, Sally highlighted a different meaning
of environment. Her discursive turn beginning "But you know ..."
constructed the environment as a site of consumption and the four - 
by - four as necessary for her children's wellbeing and their access to the
environmental affordances of their "stunning" surroundings.
In contrast to these accounts, the Andhra Pradesh/Telangana families
who had directly experienced flooding, drought and snakes did not
believe that they could eradicate these risks but worked to minimise
their exposure to them by, for example, clearing rubbish from drains
near their homes to avoid them overflowing, storing valuable items
off the ground or in other family members' homes and passing on
local knowledge about avoiding snakes. In Klocker's (2007: 92) terms,
their agency was 'thin, rather than ... non - existent'. Together, these
examples illustrate how environmental affordances are a mix of the
possibilities that people perceive their environments to allow and
having resources available to act on or ameliorate those environments.
Environmental affordances are not just what an environment affords,
but are also the nexus of experiences, socioeconomic circumstances,
beliefs and emotions that position people in relation to environmental
issues and help them to position themselves. The implication is
that engagement with climate change issues is not purely cognitive,
the result of being convinced through accurate information, but
more holistic. It is relational and simultaneously situated in what
Bronfenbrenner (1977) calls ecological niches that operate at three
levels: the micro level (for example, the home), the meso level (for
example, institutions) and the macro level (for example, the nation and
the state). As Agarwal (1998) observes, in India, environment is closely
linked to the everyday lives and practices of rural families. This is not
simply a matter of caste or social class; for example, air quality and
floods can have widespread effects across social classes. However, the
severity with which they are experienced and how they are negotiated
are interlinked with the socioeconomic resources available to families.
Relations of care and environmental affordances: "life is work"
Family environmental practices were at play in everyday urban and
rural lives in India and the UK in three ways. First, parents prioritised
relations of care for their families within the possibilities of employment
and environmental practices available to them through their own
efforts and local and national government policies. Second, families
had routines of work and travel to work that were, for many, repetitive,
mundane and hard. These were part of the process of maintaining
relations of care by providing food, fuel, shelter, clothes and physical
care. For some families this left no time and energy for thinking about
more abstract or temporally or spatially distant concerns woven into
the global narrative of 'climate change'. Third, environmental changes
affected both rural and urban contexts across the two countries (see
Chapter Four). How family members reacted to those changes partly
depended on their socioeconomic resources. There were differences
across countries and between rural and urban areas and different
socioeconomic circumstances, but the study's intergenerational, family
approach also showed how processes were patterned in ways that cut
across these groupings.
The micro environments in which family members spend their
days are inextricably linked with macro environmental issues so that,
as Jamieson (2016: 336) suggests, 'the conduct of family life and
personal relationships has profound consequences for environment
and sustainability issues'. Families' practices are particular to the
environments that constitute them and are produced by local
environmental features, and in this way they overlap with consumption
practices (Warde, 2005; Morgan, 2013). What, and how much,
environmental resources are consumed by families depends on their
environments. In both India and the UK, some families considered
that the immediacy of their everyday family concerns left no space
for environmental concerns, made them irrelevant or were beyond
what the family could do as they strove to maintain or ameliorate
their circumstances. For some - particularly urban and rural families
who lived in poverty in India - hard work was inextricably linked
with their environmental experiences and distinctive dependencies
on their environments.
The examples that follow all come from the Indian sample. Only a
small minority of people in the UK are directly subject to the vagaries
of weather or other environmental conditions for their livelihood
(ONS, 2013); dependence on environmental conditions and resources
for work and everyday life is far from uncommon in India and our
samples reflect this difference.
Mamatha's family (mother Syamala, father Venkatesh and two
siblings) lived in Hyderabad and had moved from the countryside
to find jobs. They lived in a temporary shelter made from wood,
corrugated iron and plastic in an 'un - notified' community that is not
eligible for a 'slum upgrading' scheme designed to improve sanitation
and living conditions for people living in poverty in urban areas (for
example, Ghertner, 2012). The year prior to the interview, the family
had lived in a dwelling on the same site that was sturdier, with asbestos
walls and roof, but it had been demolished by the government in a
slum clearance scheme. Syamala told the story of this as a negative
turning point in the family's economic fortunes. The family decided,
with their neighbours, to rebuild their home, with the hope that, over
time, the government would officially recognise their community,
but did not invest their scarce resources in the new house, in case the
government destroyed it. They had an ('illegal') electricity supply and
relied on obtaining partially filled auto - rickshaw gas canisters in order
to avoid having to burn wood. The unpredictability of this gas supply
meant that Syamala continued to collect wood during her work as a
labourer and they sometimes had no choice but to use it for cooking,
although the smoke it produced affected their breathing and stained
their walls. Everyday life was a constant struggle. The temporary roof
leaked during the rainy season and Mamatha explained that the floor
was too hot in the summer for her to walk in her bare feet. The water
supply from the local tap was insecure and Syamala said she scolded
the children for using too much water. Both Mamatha and Syamala
were concerned about rubbish and human faeces that foul the local
park (in the absence of adequate sanitation or rubbish disposal facilities
in the community).
Alongside household commitments, the parents had a relentless
work schedule, vividly articulated in the photo - elicitation interview
during which Syamala discussed the gender - differentiated nature of
her work in the family home before going to work as a cleaner or
day construction labourer. The extract starts as Syamala showed a
photograph of her daughters folding their bedsheets, something that
has to be done every morning:
Interviewer/interpreter: 'While looking at it, that work, how do
you feel?'
Syamala: 'Life is ever like this ... Life is work [laughs] ...
Early in the morning have to cook and ... have
to rush to work. Should wash the clothes before
leaving, you know ... daily.'
This notion, that work is all - consuming, making place irrelevant,
recurred in the family interviews as well as Syamala's individual
interview:
Interviewer/interpreter: 'What are ... the things that you're able to
do by staying in this locality, you Mr Venkatesh?'
Venkatesh: '... wherever we go have to work! There is nothing
like doing a job or employment. Wherever we
are there is nothing like doing a job, have to
work! Even if we stay in the village have to work.
Wherever we are this is the only work. [...].'
Syamala: 'As the problems doubled in village, felt better here.
We shifted here and thought to do hard work and
live.'
In her interview, Mamatha told a 'small story' about how the roof
leaking during heavy rain made further work for her mother and
herself.
Mamatha: 'On that day when they demolished the huts, we
built [our house] again steadily, [but] the rain pours
through the holes, isn't it, and complete house gets
wet. When it pours in the home, complete home
gets wet and I sweep [the] whole house when it
pours, sweep all the water out and my mother
washes completely.'
Figure 3.2 illustrates how extreme weather resulted in more work for
Syamala. It shows her rehanging the plastic sheeting that separates the
family 'bathroom' from the rest of their home, a task she described as
a "regular event" following heavy wind or rain.
Asked about climate change, Mamatha's mother and father both
focused on immediate family problems such as the children having
problems travelling to school in the heat unless their father (an auto - 
rickshaw driver) can take them in the morning. During the rainy
season, there were problems partly because the roof did not have a
proper cover and partly because of inadequate sanitation in the locality,
as Syamala explained:
Syamala: 'It is all dirty! House flies, everywhere, and summer
it is like this! And during rain ... [...].'
Interviewer/interpreter: 'Hot season, how will it be, here and the
surroundings?'
Syamala: 'Will be neat.'
Interviewer/interpreter: 'Will be neat but how will be the heat during
summer?'
Syamala: 'Too much heat.'
Interviewer/interpreter: 'Can we bear?'
Syamala: 'Have to, and we go to work, so ...'
The family's accounts emphasised the mundane yet precarious
drudgery of wage labour (for both parents) and household work (for
the mother) and appeared to pay little attention to climate change and
macro environmental issues. But despite this all - encompassing labour,
the parents had a future vision of a better life for their children, paid
for their son (the youngest child) to go to a fee - paying school and
ensured that both daughters went to a state school and did not have
to do too much household work, as well as taking care to keep their
daughters away from threats outside the home.
While this family could be said to be at the mercy of their
environment, they clearly exercised agency in struggling to make
their lives as comfortable and secure as possible in very difficult
circumstances and investing in the future for their children. The
family had continually worked hard to improve their circumstances
by moving to the city and persevering despite having had their home
demolished. The much - repeated mantra about the parents' hard work
 - encapsulated in Syamala's 'life is work' - was instructive, in that
working as hard as possible every day was the main way for them to
maintain or improve the circumstances that were within their control.
The parents also tried to spare their children the worst depredations
to do with flooding.
Syamala: 'During heavy rains, we will send the three
children to my mother's place; we both get
drenched and stay, cover ourselves with blankets
and sleep [...].'
Interviewer/interpreter: 'Then how are you managing?'
Syamala: 'What is there to manage? It's all tension, they
will demolish this ... and [we are] afraid of when
it happens! [...].'
Mamatha also told a story that positioned her as agentically proactive
in the face of all the difficulties faced by the family. Having noticed
that the number of mosquitoes had decreased after the local authorities
cleared rubbish from the park across the road from their home, she had
scolded local children for defecating in the park, on the grounds that
this practice attracted mosquitoes. The Indian government's Swachh
Bharat ('Clean India') campaign, launched in October 2014, has a
focus on eliminating defecation in public places. Mamatha's account
of her efforts took place in spring 2013, more than a year previously:
Mamatha: 'When children use it as toilet, I tell them to go
away from there and do that at their home.'
Interviewer/interpreter: 'So you tell like that, when did you tell that?'
Mamatha: 'When I was child, even now I tell. [...].'
Interviewer/interpreter: 'And what do the other children say?'
Interviewer/interpreter: 'What will they say, when you say like that,
do they listen or tell you to go away?'
Mamatha: 'Some say that "is it your park, have you built it?"
"We haven't built [it], but mosquitoes will reach
our home, and it will be dirty, that's why I am
telling you to leave this place." I say [it] in that
way, then they leave.'
The family's narratives highlight that environmental affordances
are about what family members perceive that the environment can
afford them. Government decisions make a difference to families'
environmental experiences and practices. Not surprisingly, both
Mamatha and her parents discussed the intensification of their precarity
and the pressures on the family produced by government intervention
in demolishing their previous home. By the time we returned to
Mamatha's school to discuss our findings with the children, her
father - whose work as an auto - rickshaw driver in the city exposed
him to extremely high intensities of air pollution - had died from a
heart attack, making the family situation more precarious than ever.
Anand's family had also moved to Hyderabad from the countryside,
in their case because of drought and crop failure, in order to find
employment so that they could survive and raise their children. The
family would have preferred to remain in the countryside. Instead,
they were what Guha (2006) refers to as 'ecological refugees'.
They lived in a small apartment on the top floor of a block next to
a mobile telephone mast, which the family feared was subjecting
them to harmful radiation, but they felt they had no other option.
In parallel with Mamatha's family, both parents were waged workers
but maintained traditional gendered practices and ideology at home.
Anand's mother, Rajeswari, downplayed her role as a wage earner and
constructed herself as a wife and mother, even though she worked as a
domestic worker (housemaid) and a day labourer and was out at work
from 9am to 6pm. Anand's father, Ramanaiah, described himself as the
provider, taking responsibility for the family. Yet, Rajeswari recognised
that her schedule was punishing and, like Syamala, she described a
life consumed by work:
Rajeswari: 'And all that I know is work and that's all ... I come
back home only by six o'clock in the evening.
You know I need to go and work in two houses.
You know I work as a housemaid in two houses
and also work outside apart from that. So I cannot
remain at home. In case if I remained at home I
would still be doing some household work.'
Given how busy she was and how few material resources the family
had, it was not surprising that, in their individual interviews, both
Rajeswari and Anand did not express concern about climate change,
although Anand said that he had noticed that rain now, unusually, fell
in the summer and that it could be cold in the summer as well. He
also gave a narrative about seeing flood victims, whose houses had
collapsed, in a local hospital. By contrast, Rajeswari refused to be
drawn when asked about environmental issues.
Rajeswari: '[We usually keep away] from such issues and don't
interact with anyone on those matters, we don't
go there at all. [...] After moving over to this place,
we don't feel anything, in fact everything is okay
with us. We are fine. [...].'
Interviewer/interpreter: 'Here you don't have any problems and you
are free from all those, but you are aware that it
affects people in general. Tell me what you feel
when it affects others.'
Rajeswari: 'Well, it affects and people face problems [but]
it is difficult for me to tell about other people's
problems and how it affects them. [Laughs] How
can I relate myself and tell you about them? How
can I tell you about other people?'
Anand's parents' portrayed lives that were dominated by work,
experienced as an all - encompassing ordeal, fatiguing, but necessary
for the family's survival. They worked 'for the children's sake' but it
prevented them from engaging in less immediate issues than daily
survival. For example, they described themselves as too busy working
to go to a parents' evening at school. Rajeswari had taken her eight - 
year - old son out of school to attend to his little sister during her
working day, which she justified on account of his lack of interest in
his studies. In previous times Anand had also stayed off school to do
childcare. The children therefore contributed to the family economy
of work and care. In these circumstances, it is perhaps not surprising
that Rajeswari said that the family kept away from broader issues
concerning the environment and could not relate to other people's
problems. They portrayed themselves as uneducated and reliant on
the protective knowledge of others, which they did not question. For
example, Rajeswari explained that "[o]ur well - wishers, people known
to us, the educated ones, tell us about environmental danger from [the
mobile telephone] mast". She also described the family as devout and
that religion provided comfort and hope; they went to church because
the preachers told them that trust in God might transform their lives.
Chandrasekhar lived with his mother, father and brother in rural
Telangana and attended the local (free) government school. The family
belonged to the Padmasali weaver caste, and did padugu work, preparing
threads to be woven into saris and other clothes. They also used to do
weaving, but had given this up, as Chandrasekhar's parents explained:
Ananda Rao (father): 'We used to do this, weaving. As it wasn't
profitable, we have started doing this [only
threadmaking].'
Sumathi (mother): 'It wasn't enough.'
Ananda Rao: 'It wasn't enough when we did it.'
Sumathi: 'It wasn't enough when we did weaving.'
Ananda Rao: 'As it wasn't profitable and four of us had to survive
and our daughter had to be married.'
The increasingly precarious lives and livelihoods of handloom
weaving castes, including Padmasali, are well documented (for
example, Apparao, 2011), and the experience of Chandrasekhar's
family has commonalities with that described in other research, not
least that weaving involves the entire family, and is understood 'as a
way of life rather than an occupation that merely provides livelihood'
(Apparao, 2011: 146). In Chandrasekhar's family, the importance of
their collective work and intergenerational identity as Padmasali was
emphasised through detailed accounts of the practice of threadmaking,
told and retold across interviews and in multiple family photographs,
including all three photographs selected to represent the family in the
final interview.
Figure 3.3 illustrates the process of drying threads for Chandrasekhar's
family. Padugu work relies on the local environment; water is needed
to starch and dye the threads, which are then spread in the road in
front of the family home to dry in the sun.
Prakash and Singh (2012) have written about the relative scarcity of
water for lower - caste groups, including Padmasali, in Andhra Pradesh,
also noting that they live in less environmentally secure areas within
their local communities. These factors were evident in Sumathi
and Ananda Rao's account. The family lived in a low - lying area of
their village, near a canal that floods regularly in the rainy season.
Sumathi had to collect water every day from a tap provided by the
local government, which was only available for a limited time each
morning (30 to 45 minutes). The work was also seasonally determined.
Ananda Rao explained that, in the summer, "many - a - times per week"
the water would not go to the tap at all; then they had to travel to
neighbouring areas and carry water long distances. Chandrasekhar
said that in the rainy season "the whole area turns into slushy mud"
and it is impossible to dry threads on the road. Sumathi described the
impact of these seasonal changes:
Sumathi: 'Last year we had water problem for at least for
a month. It happened in the month of May and
on some days, we could get not a drop of water
from anywhere. It was very tough. We depend on
this work for our livelihood. It is very difficult for
us to make ends meet in rainy season. We never
have enough food. We go through this kind of
situation every year for two or three months. To
survive in such situation, we take loan.'
Interviewer/interpreter: 'Did you face any other problem like drought
or any problem related to the weather?'
Sumathi: 'Droughts occur due to the weather. In rainy season
we cannot do our work at all. And we depend at
the interest rate of 10 rupees per month. We end
up paying the interest till the following year. Since
we don't have the money to pay the principal
amount, we keep paying the interest. We don't
even know how much we pay towards the loan
ultimately. As time goes by the interest keeps on
increasing. For example, if we take 10,000 rupees
loan, we have to pay 1,000 rupees interest every
month. We are just paying the interest and we are
not able to clear the actual loan amount. We face
drought in this way. For us this is the drought.
Since we are paying so much interest on loan,
how can we take care of the children?'
Sumathi's environmental concerns were rooted in everyday
interdependence with the natural world, managed through habitual
family practices embedded in intergenerational relations. Mitigative
practices entail hard work - for example, Sumathi described pain
in her legs when carrying water over long distances - but this was
taken for granted as inevitable in the family's narrative, described by
both Sumathi and Anando Rao as "inconvenient" and by Sumathi as
"unavoidable". In contrast to this relative pragmatism, both parents
spoke quite differently about a cyclone with heavy flooding, six years
previously. Sumathi explained:
Sumathi: 'Everything had drowned and was damaged, not
a single [tool for weaving] was in a workable
condition. We just had to leave everything
including the eatables as it occurred at night. As
it had gotten spoilt we had to buy everything
from the beginning. We borrowed money from
the money lender with an interest of 10 rupees
[per 100]. Thus we bought the tools and started
working and repaying the debt. Whenever we
needed we borrowed money and thus the interest
kept on accumulating. You can calculate how
much it would come up to for an interest of 10
rupees. It feels like we are half dead because of
the accumulated interest. The main reason for our
deplorable situation is paying the large amounts
as interest. Because of the interest to be paid we
have reached this situation, our lives are ruined.
[...].'
Interviewer/interpreter: 'Did you sell your old house because of that
or was there any other reason?'
Sumathi: 'Yes. Because of these difficulties and loans and as
we were unable to pay the interest, we had to sell
the house.'
Sumathi's choice of language here was in stark contrast to the
"inconvenient" everyday hardships that the family endured: they lost
everything - she repeated the word 'everything' three times in the
first three sentences of this short extract. And she spoke in the present
tense: she summed up this short story of devastating loss with the
statements that "we are half dead" and "our lives are ruined". This
was an environmental concern that threatened their everyday lives,
and continued to reverberate into their future lives.
The family's continuing financial precarity meant that they had no
economic resources to protect them six years previously when the
floods destroyed their tools; the accumulating cost of interest on the
loans meant that they subsequently had to sell their house. Sumathi
explained later that they had no option of seeking help from relatives
because "[e]verybody has [the] same kind of problems". Her account
highlighted the ways in which quotidian and seasonal environmental
precarity intersected with major environmental shocks, and their
concomitant reliance on the money lender, as in the following account
of the precautions they took during the rainy season:
Sumathi: 'We bring all our tools inside and stay inside
without stepping outside. We would make do
with whatever we have to eat. If we don't have
anything to prepare a curry, we eat rice with
chilli powder. And in place of buttermilk, we just
add water to the rice and eat it. We stop buying
milk from outside. Or if we think that we cannot
repay the loan we won't take any more loans. (.)
Sometimes we would be already be owing money
to the money lender. In such circumstances, we
will make do with whatever we have instead of
taking loan to eat. Till we clear the previous loan,
we won't go for a new loan. I get really worried
when we have loans to pay.'
The disproportionate economic impact of environmental shocks on
people living in poverty in rural India is of course well established,
and - as for Mamatha's and Anand's families - is known to be a trigger
for rural - urban migration (for example, Deshingkar, 2012). Within
our small sample, other families had changed family work in response
to economic pressures, including pressures that were environmentally
produced. Hemant's father, Vignesh, described diversifying from
agriculture into fisheries, to mitigate the economic effects of climatic
shocks on agricultural income. Dharani's family had moved to a larger
village and given up agricultural work; her father worked in a petrol
'bunk' (station) and her mother as a seamstress. In explaining the
family's decision to move away from agriculture, Dharani's mother,
Rani, said that changing crop patterns resulting from changes in the
climate had meant that the family could only rely on one annual
paddy harvest rather than two as in the past and this was not enough
to support them. Chandrasekhar's family tried to earn money in other
ways. For example, his father, Ananda Rao, did catering work in the
rainy season, but his parents saw few possibilities for change:
Ananda Rao: 'Now since our forefathers also were born and
brought up in this we don't know how to do
anything else. People who do this work cannot
do that.'
Sumathi: 'We don't go to do the field work as we cannot
do it.'
Ananda Rao: 'Because of that we got used to this work.'
Sumathi: 'We have to be happy with whatever we get in
this.'
Conclusion
The second part of this chapter has focused on families who might
be described as environmentally dependent 'ecological refugees' or
'ecosystem people' within Guha's (2006) typology. For them, major
environmental shocks intersect with poverty, caste and quotidian
environmental hardships to generate environmental concerns
rooted in existential threats to the family's survival. For those whose
environmental concerns are inseparable from concern for family
wellbeing, environmental concerns that entail care at a distance must
compete with concerns for the family life that the family 'lives and
breathes'. That tension is most evident in discussions of time - scarcity,
which show how environmental concerns may be 'overpowered'
by more pressing domestic and familial considerations. As we
explore further in Chapter Four, simplistic moral judgements about
environmental un/concern neglect the situated specificity of human
interests, and the ways in which concern is produced (and managed)
in the intersectional context of environmental affordances, where
socioeconomic and geographic resources frame the gendered and
generational relationality and materiality of everyday family practices.
FOUR
Environmental concerns, identities
and practices
The global does not represent the universal human interest, it
represents a particular local and parochial interest which has
been globalised through the scale of its reach. (Shiva, 1993: 151)
No matter what type of air pollutant it is, ... [it is] children who
are most susceptible to its dangerous effects. In order to protect
children from these air pollutants, follow these basic ways to
reduce pollutant particles from your surroundings. Dr Krishan
Chugh, director and HOD, Paeds and PICU and Dr Neetu
Talwar, senior consultant, Paeds Pulmonoly, Fortis Memorial
Research Institute share some effective tips to protect children
from air pollution:
• Use of efficient stoves for safe cooking practices
• Avoid active and passive smoking both
• Use of efficient and low pollution vehicles
• Proper maintenance of your personal vehicles
• Using fan over air conditioners
• Walking or riding a bicycle, whenever possible [...]
And last but not the least, going green. Plant trees and if possible
place more and more indoor plants. Use of efficient stoves for
safe cooking practices
• Avoid active and passive smoking both
• Use of efficient and low pollution vehicles
• Proper maintenance of your personal vehicles
• Using fan over air conditioners
• Walking or riding a bicycle, whenever possible
• Recycling paper, plastic, metals, and organic materials
• Washing laundry in cold water and line drying your
laundry. (The Times of India, 2 December 2016)
'[G]lobal space' is no more than the sum of relations, connections,
embodiments and practices. These things are utterly everyday
and grounded at the same time as they may, when linked
together, go around the world. (Massey, 2004: 8)
Introduction
As Shiva (1993) noted in the epigraph that opens this chapter,
narratives of environmental concern that derive from particular
Minority world contexts are not truly global. Popular images of an
apparently depopulated pristine nature, such as the earth from space
or the solitary polar bear, are quite literally distant from the lives of
the majority. Yet, they are considered by many as foundational to
galvanising environmentalism into a purportedly 'global' movement
(Ingold, 2000). This kind of affluent Minority world imaginary is
problematic in several respects. Images of depopulated pristine nature
conceal the fallacy of nature - culture dualism (for example, Heise,
2008), rendering invisible the vast differences within and between
countries in human - nature interdependence, and the ways in which
children and families understand, value and are put at risk by their
'environments'. From a common world perspective, abstracted images
of climate change are not merely emotive; they are also politically
neutralising, concealing the ways in which powerful economic interests
maintain and normalise high consumption (Newell, 2012). This has
implications for our understanding of the 'other' in the face of climate
change. When environmental concern is conceptualised in terms of
an imaginary of depopulated pristine nature that is produced from
the affluent Minority world, who (or what) is the object of concern?
During times of crisis, the vilification of the other becomes
particularly acute (Joffé, 1999) and so the characterisation of
contemporary times as constituting environmental crises has
consequences for how the environmental other is viewed. This can
be seen in the characterisation of 'uncivil others' in policy, media and
academic narratives of environmental concern (Smith and Howe, 2015),
contributing to the tendency for environmentalism or consumption to
be reduced to 'matters of moral adjudication or political stance' (Miller,
2012: viii - ix). Hulme (2014: 308 - 309) argued that, to talk about
climate change, we must start by asking what it means to be human:
'What is the good life and what therefore is an adequate response to
climate change?' But simple moral characterisations neglect structural
inequalities in the ways in which some lives - and not others - are
framed as 'human', conforming to 'a culturally limited norm for what
the human is supposed to be', and hence who is recognised as entitled
to protection (Butler, 2004: 91). To consider how environmental
concern is situated within family lives, we need also to attend to the
object/s of that concern. With those arguments in mind, this chapter
focuses on families who are emblematic of different ways in which
environmental affordances intersect with environmental concerns.
The previous chapter showed how the necessity to engage in
arduous, repetitive labour left no time for contemplating or attending
to issues of climate change, even while environmental precarity and
unpredictability exacerbated the hard work of family lives. We now
examine the ways in which environmental concerns are situated in
families' everyday lives across continents and contexts, aiming to disrupt
binarising conceptualisations of 'global' versus 'local' concerns, or
'concerned' versus 'unconcerned' people, that construct an abstract,
abject or immoral other, distanced from moral, environmentally aware,
selves. We argue for a nuanced understanding, facilitated through a
common world approach (Taylor, 2013), which attends to the quotidian
and gendered interdependencies of domestic life (MacGregor, 2006),
and takes account of the ways in which environmental concerns (plural)
may be simultaneously distanced and made proximal as part of the
relational dynamics of 'doing' family (Finch, 2007).
The chapter explores the ways in which environmental concerns
and practices depend on the affordances of local environments. It
discusses families who take a sceptical approach to ideas that climate
change is anthropogenic, produced through human action and so
amenable to human intervention, and those who accept that climate
change is anthropogenic, but are sceptical about whether individual
action can make a difference. Finally, the chapter focuses on families
who have taken up environmental identities and are committed to
practices designed to stave off climate change. By juxtaposing examples
where environments exert a limiting effect on children's and families'
lives with examples where families are able to exert more control
over their environments, the chapter illustrates that families with
different experiences of 'environment' can share similar attitudes to
'big' environmental practices, and shows why it is unhelpful to binarise
the so - called local as grounded and everyday and the so - called global
as abstract and superordinate.
Family environmental affordances: beliefs in the irrelevance of human
responses to climate change
We begin by considering families where parents (and sometimes
children too) questioned the relevance of human responses to climate
change. Katrina was a lone parent who worked part time and lived
in a rural hamlet in Southern England with her sons Callum (aged
11) and Marcus (aged eight). Their isolated location meant that they
were not connected to mains drainage or to gas as a household fuel
(as is usual in the UK); they could not afford electric heating and so
relied on solid fuel, coal and wood. Of course, it could be said that,
in choosing to live where she did, Katrina had simultaneously made
macro - environmental choices. However, as with most family 'choices',
it was a negotiated decision, made with the children's father when
she was pregnant, so they could secure affordable housing and bring
up their children in the countryside within reach of both their places
of employment, relatively near family members and near potential
schools. Their choices were thus contingent on imagined futures for
the family, and the best compromises they could make to fit with and
maintain their employment.
For Katrina, environmental affordances in everyday life involved
hard work and financial management. As Jamieson (2016: 337)
suggests, agency is 'anchored in the emotionally charged intimacy of
embodied personal relationships'; Katrina's awareness of environmental
affordances was fuelled by an understanding of how their ecological
niche had an impact on herself and her children. Having no car in
an area poorly served by public transport, she was acutely aware that,
particularly in winter, when it was dark for much of the day and unsafe
for Callum to cycle, the possibilities for her children and herself to
move about their environment were extremely limited and dependent
on lifts from other people more frequently than she would have liked.
Perhaps not surprisingly, Katrina now considered that it would be
better if they lived somewhere else, but she was committed to staying
put until her children were older and less dependent. Without a car,
the family's carbon footprint was lower than it would otherwise have
been, but this was an unchosen environmental affordance following
an accident (and temporary, until they could afford to replace the
car), so it was experienced as undesirable and outside familial control.
Katrina's photograph taken on her walk to the bus stop on a dark
winter's morning allows insights into how unpleasant she found this
routine (see Figure 4.1).
Katrina was also acutely aware of the cost of coal, and so did not keep
the heating on continually. She also viewed coal dust as potentially
damaging for their lungs, and clearly disliked the drudgery involved in
lighting the fire each winter morning, sometimes after spending two
or more hours travelling home from a 12 - hour nightshift:
Katrina: 'We probably use about (.) 18 bags of coal over the
winter ... They're 25 quid a bag so they're quite
a bit.'
Interviewer: 'Hmm. And is it difficult to do?'
Katrina: 'Well it's just having to ... because it's not - 
obviously it's not like, I'd love to have a switch and
it all goes on and be lovely ... But (.) you have to
start ... because when you're starting it off, you
start the fire up and then put the coal on and it
gets really, really hot. It gets extremely hot. And
it does, it heats all the radiators and it also um, the
excess heat goes on and heats some of the water
as well ... then in the morning you have to come
Figure 4.1: "Me going down to the bus stop to get the bus to go to work"
(Callum's mother, Katrina)
down, empty out the dustpan and then start it up
again. And ... there's some residual heat in there,
so you should be able to use a couple of sticks and
it'll go up again and you just put some more coal
in. But it is - it's not an easy thing.'
Interviewer: 'And then how long does it take for the house to
get warmed?'
Katrina: 'Er ... about two hours ... Yeah. It's not too long
... But it's um (.) it's - it's not good for your lungs
really. There's quite a lot of dust around in the
winter in this house.'
For Katrina, macro environmental practices and local everyday
concerns were interlinked and seasonal, with winter requiring
the lighting of fires, cold waits at bus stops and both boys staying
indoors a great deal because of the busy roads, lack of pavements and
darkness outside. But the environmental affordances they perceived
were not only negative. Callum and Marcus enjoyed climbing trees
in the summer and keeping chickens while their mother enjoyed the
garden and beautiful countryside. However, Katrina considered that
environmental 'choices' were partly socioeconomically produced. The
lack of choice encapsulated in Katrina's "Well it's just having to" (above)
meant that these environmental affordances did not produce Katrina
or her son, Callum, as environmental agents committed to preventing
climate change. Instead, their narratives showed that they viewed
themselves as having to negotiate what the environment afforded.
At the same time, Katrina said that she had been a committed
recycler for 20 years and had taught her sons to recycle, not to waste
water and to turn off the lights in empty rooms. But reducing water
and electricity use served to reduce household bills, and Katrina
explained that she recycled because she disliked seeing litter in her
environment, not for environmental reasons. Indeed, she was sceptical
(as was Callum) about climate change arguments on the grounds that
climate change is cyclical and has been recursive over millions of years.
She did not, therefore, believe that climate change is amenable to
human intervention or her agency. This was also the case for Vicky,
Oliver's mother, who also lived in rural England, albeit in more
comfortable material circumstances than Katrina, and whose three
sons went to a private school. Considering their narratives together
reveals commonalities across socioeconomic groups, positioned in very
different ways in their families and local environments. Asked what
she thought about what people said about climate change, Vicky's
reply paralleled Katrina's:
Interviewer: 'When you hear about people talking about climate
change, or big environmental issues, what does
that mean to you? ... How does it make you feel?'
Katrina: 'It worries me. It worries me about what the
children are going to grow up ... and their
children, you know finding with the world. But
at the same time, I don't know whether it's often
... how ... things like these ... like the tsunamis
and things have happened throughout time in
the past anyway ... So it's just that the world ...
how - how - how it is anyway. Um, like from the
time of the dinosaurs there's been certain weather
 - certain things happening with the weather and
everything. So it's like um, recycling. I've always
recycled as much as I possibly can. The boys know,
you know about recycling and they're very aware
of looking after their environment.'
Interviewer: 'So why is that something that you've always done?
Is it something that you've kind of always thought
of as important? [...]'
Katrina: Um, I think just (.) I've always hated, since I was
little, people littering. Um, and I think um, some
friends that ... um ... recycled and had separate
bins and I think that that was sort of, probably like
20 - odd years ago, and I thought yeah, you know,
that's a good thing to do.'
Interviewer: 'What do you think ... when you hear people
talking about (...) big things like flooding recently,
or climate change, or things like that ...?'
Vicky: '(...) Um (...) how much effort would I make? (...)
In terms of, you know, the whole (...) thing like
(.) global warming and stuff? Not much. Because
I don't think it makes very much difference ...
I'm afraid it's ... not a politically correct thing
to say, but just that's the truth ... It's not about
what impact can I have. It's about (...) is this
actually anything to do with mankind? [...] We
(...) we wouldn't think, let's not drive, let's walk,
because that's going to save the environment ...
We wouldn't think like that ... So, so (.) if I'm
completely honest ... I don't think we make a lot
of effort as a family ... To affect the ... I'd go mad
if one of my kids threw a crisp packet out the
window or something like that ... I'd have, in fact
I'd stop the car and go back and make them get,
pick it up. I would ... sort of thing. I really don't
like ... And you know, my business (...) has got
a policy about environment, and that recycles all
sor - we do recycle stuff, but we have to otherwise
we get fined, so that's probably why we do it. [...]
But it's not actually about, you know, let's save
our planet ... for the people who are going to live
in 300 years or, you know, or whatever ... Let's
stop our planet exploding and being burnt up ...
Because we're not going to stop that.'
The notion of environmental affordances helps to explain commonalities
across the material differences of these two mothers' families, showing
the importance of understanding what family members considered that
their local environments afforded and whether or not they considered
that human action caused, or might alleviate, climate change. Neither
mother could be said to be 'climate change deniers' since they agreed
that the climate was changing, although both questioned whether
this was anthropogenic. Yet, since both valued highly the beautiful
countryside in which they lived, they were committed to behaviours
that many would consider 'environmental' practices and to teaching
their children such practices, although not for reasons of climate
change.
Vicky's family lived in a detached house with a garden in a private
estate surrounded by woods, 25 minutes' walk from the nearest shop,
which was in a petrol station. They had lived in this home since Oliver's
oldest brother (now aged 14 years) was a baby. Their home was not on
any public transport routes, but unlike Katrina's family, the family had
several cars and either drove where they wanted to go - including to
the children's private school, in a village some 30 minutes' drive from
their home - or used taxis. A key theme from all the three visits to
the family was that they had little contact with their neighbours and
were insulated from their surroundings. Vicky explained:
Vicky: 'I mean I think, we are a, we are sort of a
convenience family, and ... finances do permit
us to be like that. So we are (...) quite fortunate.
Because there's things that we don't like to do ...
like ... I mean you know for example, years ago,
every Saturday morning I would walk around
Tesco's and get the week's shop. I don't have to
do that anymore because I can pay someone else
to do it. So I do, because I don't actually like
doing it ... and I don't want to spend my time
doing things I don't like to do. [...] I think that's
quite indicative of our life ... that we sort of do
the things that we want to do and the rest of it
we sort of get ... You pay someone to do it ... It
sounds really awful but you know we do. [...] So
... that's the picture really.'
Vicky's family's affluence insulated them from the everyday difficulties
and privations that Katrina faced, and their interdependence on others
(through paid help) was financially assured.
Vicky's family were aware of discourses about the global
environment, although Vicky said that this was not something they had
previously discussed at home, and they did not feel directly affected by,
or concerned about, climate change. Nearby floods had not affected
family life in any way. Oliver said in his individual interview that when
people suggested that changing behaviour could avert climate change,
he never felt that this applied to him. He considered that climate
change was a distant problem, related to polar bears and shrinking
ice caps. Vicky explained that she was affected when there were
hosepipe bans because watering her garden was important to her, but
she doubted the value of trying to conserve water when authorities
did not mend leaking reservoirs, and considered that using less water
would not benefit drought - affected people living in the global south.
She also expressed doubts about the energy efficiency of recycling in
comparison to landfill systems.
It is striking that both Katrina's and Vicky's families doubted that
humans were responsible for climate change, raising the question of
why governments and environmental organisations have not been able
to convince families such as these. Their environmental affordances
seemed to produce different reasons for their disbelief. Vicky's family
considered that they were insulated against environmental problems to
a large extent, as a "convenience" family (in Vicky's words), whereas
Katrina's family were not insulated by socioeconomic resources in
the same way, and perceived themselves to have little impact on
ameliorating their broader environments. Both mothers, however,
engaged in 'environmental' practices that accorded with their family
values, including their appreciation of environmental beauty and their
dislike of littering and waste.
The ways in which environmental affordances are part of the
everyday were also illustrated by families living in India. For example,
Gomathi's family (mother, father and two children) lived in a three - 
bedroom apartment in central Hyderabad. Her father, Dilip, owned
and managed a shop, while her mother, Sujatha, stayed at home and
sometimes acted as an agent for a product sold through house parties
and personal contacts. They were relatively middle income in our
Indian sample, able to afford fee - paying schools and, like several families
in both India and the UK, were badly affected by the volume of traffic
near their homes. When asked about whether they had changed
anything they do as a result of global warming, Sujatha mentioned
that they used their vehicles less because of pollution:
Interpreter/interviewer: 'We are discussing about how can we protect
the environment, but do you put these into
practice, would you?'
Sujatha: 'Naturally. Now, if we have to travel a short
distance, we don't take our vehicles but we go by
walk. [...]'
Interviewer: 'Mmm, but when you go on your walk to the
market, or to the movies, do you think about it
because - do you go on the walk because you're
thinking about the environment, or are there other
things that you're thinking about?'
Sujatha: 'For both the reasons! Walking is good for health,
keeps us fit, also, we don't actually need a vehicle
for short distances, keeping the pollution in mind.'
This response is clearly co - constructed, stimulated by questions,
towards the end of the final visit, about protecting the environment.
It sounds somewhat theoretical, an impression reinforced by the fact
that Sujatha had previously (in her individual interview) seemed to
define climate change as akin to seasonal change:
Interviewer: 'So now I want to ask you about the big
environmental issues. Like, have you heard about
climate change? [...] And other problems like
drought, flooding, all these things. So can you tell
me uh, when you hear about these things, what
does it mean to you?'
Sujatha: 'Whenever there is a flood or something, we
feel like helping the needy. Previously, at our old
residence we used to give away books, papers, old
clothes and such material to a social worker (...)
Old clothes, and toys also [...]'
Interviewer: 'So have you heard of climate change? Do you
know - what do you think that means?'
Sujatha: 'Climate change means, it's'
Interpreter/interviewer: ' We are able to find a change in the climate
these days, right? What kind of changes do we
notice these days in our climate?'
Sujatha: 'You mean changes in climate like rains in summer
and heat in winters, right? ... It affects a lot ma'am.
We get affected with colds and fevers.'
As the extract above shows, Sujatha saw herself as affected by climate
only in terms of catching a cold and having fevers when the weather
changed. Apart from that she perceived what the environment affords
as requiring and enabling her benevolence to people living in poverty.
In consequence, she did not see herself as subject to the environment
or as causing climate change. The reason for this was partly because
her environment consisted largely of the family apartment. The three
photos the family chose to represent them showed them together
on the sofa and Gomathi doing homework on her bed. None were
of the world outside. Finch (2007) suggests that family photographs
serve to display the family, including putting boundaries around it that
define membership. The family's photograph choices delimited the
family as a nuclear family and the family home as the site of Gomathi's
play and school homework. They showed what Gillis (1997) calls
'the families we live by', our idealised families that are psychosocial,
appealing to normative social ideals and the desires of family members
and the family as a whole. For Gomathi's family, these images also
idealised the boundaries of the apartment, signalling its centrality to
their perceptions of environmental affordances. In that context, it is
not surprising that the traffic was the major environmental issue that
concerned the family since it partly marked the boundary to the
apartment and so to the family.
Home is where environmental affordances are: relations of care
supersede concerns with climate change
Relationality was also at the heart of the account produced by Jordan, a
mother of four children, including Nathan (aged 11, who attended an
urban state school). Ryan was stepfather to the oldest three children,
and father to the youngest, aged 18 months. The family had a relatively
low income in comparison with others in the UK sample because
they were reliant on welfare benefits as neither Jordan nor Ryan were
in employment. They lived in a rented housing association property
in one of the most deprived local authorities in the country, with
high rates of poverty (including child poverty) and relatively high
rates of violent crime and fear of crime. Jordan's narrative succinctly
highlighted the interlinking of environmental consumption, family
practices, relationality and the socioeconomic circumstances in which
families live. Like Sujatha, Jordan's focus was on her family home and
children:
Interviewer: 'OK. And so I mentioned at the start that we're
interested um (.) in what the (.) environment
means and (...) in the context of family life. So I
just wanted to ask sort of each of you that. When
I say environment, what does that mean to you?
What does it make you think of?'
Nathan: 'Just surroundings. [...].'
Jordan: 'Um (.) well (.) it's the (.) where (.) it's the area you
live, the people you (.) associate with (...) the, the
things you do. Your whole life really are, is like
(.) around you is your environment ... Well my,
my environment mainly is my house ... Because
this is where I am most of the time ... So (...) that
would be my environment. The kids, theirs will
probably be the house, the park, school ...'
The family spoke very little about environmental concerns during
their interviews, and Jordan repeatedly emphasised that problems in
their local environment did not affect their family life. Early in the first
family interview, the interviewer asked about the local area:
Interviewer: 'What is this area like? What's it like living here?'
Jordan: 'Well to be honest we, I, we don't have any
problems. A lot of people moan about the area and
say it's a dump and this, that and the other. But it's
(...) it's fine for us. [...] Well there's a lot of um
(...) drugs and (...) gangs and (...) muggings and
things like that. But nothing that's directly affected
us. [...] I mean muggings and people stealing like
bikes and stuff like that. That's rose, risen quite a
lot over the past (...) couple of years.'
Nathan: 'Riots.'
Jordan: 'But it's not direct, that's not directed, directly
affected us ...'
Ryan: 'Now there's the burglaries as well ... I'm saying
now there's the burglaries. I mean there's a few of
them.'
Jordan: 'Yeah. There's been a (...) the, the rise in burglaries
and stuff and ... [...] But it's not affected us. Both of
our neighbours have been burgled, but we haven't.
[...] ... these two houses either side of us they're
privately rented properties. Where this one's [...]
like housing association property ...'
Jordan's response "we, I, we don't have any problems" reveals her
expectation that the interviewers, like a "lot of people [who] moan",
think that her environment is not good. She made clear that she was
not concerned for her family - "it's fine for us" - but equally, her
account did not idealise her environment. She gave a list of problems
that were increasing, and when Nathan and Ryan escalated this list,
talking about riots and burglaries, she provided the detail that both
neighbours had been burgled. However, she distanced environmental
concern from her family, even as she acknowledged this proximity,
by positioning her household as different from her neighbours'. Like
Gomathi's mother, Jordan set boundaries around her family, marking
it out as separate from others around them, including in terms of
their understanding of, and sympathy for, migrants. This contrasted
with her neighbours who "don't see the bigger picture", which is
that migrants were "grafting, working every single day", unlike those
(non - migrants) who "are not working, that are sitting at home drinking
and smoking and doing whatever they're doing (...) probably moaning
about these people that are out there grafting". Jordan's understanding
of environmental concerns was situated in a relative sense of domestic
security and a life that was predominantly home - based. Her security
was partly biographical; she explained that - unlike the neighbours
who were burgled - she had lived in the area her "whole life" and in
her current house since before her children were born. Jordan's family
had limited socioeconomic resources within a UK context, and careful
financial management was a theme in their interviews. But UK welfare
frameworks ensured the family's housing and basic income so that - 
unlike many of the low - income families in the Indian sample - they
were not dependent on the local environment for survival.
Jordan's holistic, relational and geographical approach fits both with
theories of environmental affordances and family practices and relates to
her equally strong feeling that environmental issues are less important
to her than the everyday practices of care in a household of six people:
Jordan: 'What goes on in our lives every day (.) matters
to me more than (...) what goes on in the
environment. It's more important ... I'm not
saying that it's, it's (.) the environment's not
important. But for me (...) what goes on in our
everyday lives overpowers anything else.'
Nathan: 'Did you know, pollution can kill you?'
Jordan: 'Because that's what affects us the most.'
Interviewer: 'Are there any particular things in your immediate
environment ... that affect you more than other
things?'
Jordan: 'Well just every general daily life. Like making sure
the kids get to school, the sh - the shopping's done
... You know, it's just (...) washing. Everything
(...) general living ... that's what we have to deal
with.'
Jordan's account eschewed a concern with climate change and
made environmental issues subordinate to everyday family life. Her
account was, however, more complex than this in that she took up an
identity as a responsible mother who first and foremost fulfilled her
care responsibilities, shown through the temporality of the everyday,
mundane tasks of social reproduction. Environmental issues were
low in her 'hierarchy of worries', in Backett - Milburn et al's (2006)
terms. It would be easy to read Jordan's statement as indicating that
she was only concerned with her family's everyday routines from her
own perspective, particularly since she ignored Nathan's intervention
"Did you know, pollution can kill you?". This was not, however, the
case. Jordan's narrative shows that she perceived her environment as
physical, institutional and bounded by national and local government
decisions on schools and roads. She clearly paid attention to local
politics and issues such as immigration and took a nuanced approach.
Her overall point was that she was happy living in her area, where she
had lived all her life, unlike those who moaned about it because "what
you do in your everyday lives is, is important. What affects you (...)
is important to you". For Jordan, environmental affordances were to
do with family reproduction through everyday practices. But this was
neither apathy nor ignorance; Jordan did understand climate change
issues and did recycle:
Jordan: 'Yeah ... We do recycle, like our household waste
and stuff. [...] I don't really pay attention to it. I just
get on with my everyday life and (...) and that's it.
I don't really (...) cha - do much to change things.'
Interviewer: 'Could I ask you sort of why? [Laughs] [...].'
Jordan: 'I've got four kids to look after so I ain't got time
... to be [thinking about the environment; laughs]
... And that's the, that's the basic truth ... We just
get on with our everyday life and ... let someone
else deal with them kind of issues. [...].'
Interviewer: 'And how (.) did you come about sort of (...)
recycling?'
Jordan: 'The local authority ... have told us we have to
...'
Families protected from engaging in environmental practices by
socioeconomic resources
The previous chapter highlighted the intersecting environmental and
socioeconomic precarity of Chandrasekhar's family who, in Guha's
(2006) terms, were ecosystem dependent. Their experience sat in
contrast to more affluent rural Indian families, even those whose
livelihood depended on agriculture. Chitra's family, for example,
owned eight acres of land, planted with paddy (rice) and black gram
(lentils), and kept buffalo and oxen, from whom they got milk. As
illustrated in their family map (see Figure 4.2), family roles were
distinct: Chitra's father, Satyanarayana, gave an account of daily life
centred on responsibilities for the farm and livestock; he also travelled
daily to a nearby village for routine shopping and tea with friends.
Other than Chitra's travel to school and occasional visits to the town
to go to the temple or shop, both Chitra and her mother Prabhavathi
described predominantly home - based lives. Prabhavathi described an
everyday life centred on chores such as cooking, cleaning and laundry,
and laughed when asked if she or Chitra ever visited the fields. Their
domestic life was not wholly distant from agriculture: livestock were
kept very close to the family home and crops were sold from the
family compound. Their relative financial security, however, protected
Prabhavathi and Chitra from hard toil and probably helped to keep
them in farming since their rice planting was mechanised and they
could afford to employ help when necessary.
Prabhavathi said that when crops were destroyed during floods
following a cyclone two years previously, the impact on family life
was minimal. She said that "our regular lives did not get affected" and
that although the family lost profits, "we did not lose everything" and
"everything was normal here". Her distance from the impact, which
was partly the result of gender - differentiated responsibilities, was made
vivid when she was pressed for detail on the scale of the loss:
Interpreter/interviewer: 'Do you know how much was invested in
those crops?'
Prabhavathi: 'My husband knows the details. I have no idea
about it [laughs].'
Interpreter/interviewer: 'Approximately?'
Prabhavathi: 'I don't know.'
Interpreter/interviewer: 'If you lost two lakh rupees in one year, how
much [would] the investment ... have been?'
Prabhavathi: 'I really don't know any of those details [laughs].
You must ask my husband.'
Satyanarayana (Chitra's father) spoke more about the effects of flooding,
but depersonalised his account by situating it within a wider narrative
about the government's lack of concern for farmers. He gave a detailed
account of concerns about the changing local climate, concluding with
the summative statement that "[c]limate is not stable". He attributed
responsibility to government action at levels ranging from World Bank
policy to local leaders and contractors, summing up: "This is the main
reason why we are facing floods and cyclones." Satyanarayana's use of
'we', and the absence of a first - person account in his narrative, implies
a level of generalisation - 'we' as a category of farmers, and 'we' as a
family group discussing the issues - that was further developed as the
interview went on. Through these accounts, both Prabhavathi and
Satyanarayana situated environmental concern as distant from everyday
family life. For Prabhavathi, it was a matter for Satyanarayana and
agricultural work; Satyanarayana offered a narrative of the farmer's
concern for the problems created by government, rather than as lived
through hard, painful work. Instead, government policy was a matter
for conversation with his friends: "It is just talking, exchanging ideas.
It is not like doing manual work."
Both Chitra's parents' narratives reflected gendered positioning and
the relative separation of agricultural work from domestic family life,
but that is not to say that flooding was a remote concern for Chitra's
family. As was true for several families in both India and the UK, they
described watching reports of floods on television, and Chitra had
taken part in fundraising efforts for flood relief through the school.
In common with other Indian families living in flood - prone areas,
they also made routine accommodations for flooding risk within their
household practices; for example, Chitra said that the family "naturally
take precautionary measures", such as turning off the mains electricity
switch when there was a possibility of flooding.
Thinking about Chitra and Chandrasekhar's families together
highlights the ways in which environmental 'concerns' are associated
with differential impacts that are socioeconomically produced: an
environmental 'shock' such as flooding can have a devastating effect on
one family, leaving lives 'ruined', while for another, crops may be lost,
but family life can continue 'as normal'. These families also experience
quotidian or seasonal difficulties, which have to be accommodated in
the habitual practices of family life. For Chandrasekhar's family, habitual
environmental concerns intersected with environmental shocks to
produce inescapable hardship; for Chitra's family, the effects were
minimal and minimised in their narratives. These two families lived
within 20 kilometres of each other but at different altitudes. Families
living even closer to Chandrasekhar's but higher up were not as affected
by the flooding that caused them to have to abandon their house; as
noted in Chapter Three, caste intersects with socioeconomic resources
and geographical positioning (Prakash and Singh, 2012) to create risk
or protective factors for environmental insecurity.
The importance of the state to environmental affordances
Jordan's narrative (above) illuminates a key aspect of environmental
affordances, which is that the impact of relationality is as much to do
with state regulation as it is to do with relations of care and hopes
and aspirations for children's future. Jordan recycled because "[t]
he local authority ... have told us we have to" and had adapted the
environment to make recycling seem 'like a natural process' rather than
an imposed chore. Katrina and Vicky gave similar explanations that
show how family practices and environmental concerns are interlinked
because of the intervention of the state, consolidating compliance
for some families and producing affordances that are consistent with
climate change policies. It is important, however, to keep in view
that affordances are both what the environment affords and what
people themselves perceive the environment affords and what they
can make of, and contribute to, it. Meg, Amy's mother, illuminated
this complexity as she detailed her resistance to recycling despite the
local authority's provision of recycling boxes:
Interviewer: 'I mean, we were talking about flooding earlier.
And when you hear people talking about those
kind of big environmental things, what does that
mean to you?'
Meg: 'It [exhalation of breath] I (...) there's the, the (...)
socially conscious side of me [laughs] that has one
opinion. And the realistic side of me that has the
other. And the socially conscious side of me thinks
(...) you know (...) we have stripped and drained
so much from this planet, and abused it so much
... that this is payback. This, this is planet's payback
now. [...] Part of you looks at that and just thinks
(...) what can I do? You know ... Is, is there any
way of salvaging this? Does, is recycling really just
a, a drop in the ocean? Is it actually going to make
any difference now? (...) It's really, really hard (...)
to think, right, I'm going to change my lifestyle
and make things maybe a bit more difficult for me
and do this, and put in a bit more effort and do
that. When actually, you've got this bigger global
picture where you've got these multinational
companies ... that are actually (...) causing so many
problems and issues anyway. So (...) hang on a
minute; why does the responsibility sit with me?
Then you have the other side ... that says, well if
you don't start small, it will never get big will it?
(...) So (...) you know (...) there's that. And also
I have the little, my little voice of (...) conscience
through there who ... pipes up with the, we
should really be recycling this mum. Where's our
recycling boxes? [Laughs] In the shed. Um (...)
you know ... So it's kind of a catch - 22 really.'
Interviewer: 'But do you think it ... ought to start from the
top?'
Meg: 'I think, it has to start from the top because, you
know ... that is when it's going to change. And that
is the only way it is going to change. [...] These
recycling boxes that they drop off with us, and
the, the food recycling ... That is just lip service
... to some level. Because that's, that's saying to
me it's my responsibility to do this and it sits with
me. Actually it doesn't. [...] You know, what can
I do about a company polluting water? ... What
can I do about an oil spill ... from an oil tanker?
... You know, those sort of things, which are huge
and have devastating ... effects. Um, or, or them
not having enough (...) you know, flood defences
and things ... Those are, those are big things,
but actually (...) that's not me on a day - to - day
... situation. So it's quite hard because the things
that need to change (...) aren't really things that I
can touch really ... I can, I can maybe make my
point by voting (...) or lobbying. But um (...) you
know, how much of an impact does that have?'
For Meg, environmental affordance was complicated and conflictual.
Her long narratives (edited here) about climate change detailed
this complexity, as well as her doubts about possibilities for action.
Her experience also shows how infrastructure intersects with
'environmental' decision making. Like Katrina, Meg was a single
parent, living in a rural location while working part - time in a nearby
town, and not using a car at the time of the interview. In Meg's case,
local authority policies had made driving and parking expensive and
slow, while facilitating good public transport, so she stopped driving
to work and used buses. While she did not say so, this decision may
also have been influenced by the family's socioeconomic positioning;
Meg had stopped using her car altogether, keeping it off the road, so
that she did not have to pay taxes on it. This highlights an issue raised
by Guha (2006): that people living in poverty would consume more
if they had the choice. If money was no object, Meg may well have
kept her car taxed and available for occasional use. Her analysis of
her own situation illuminates the importance of state intervention to
the environmental affordances developed by individuals and families:
"And admittedly when they started changing the roads I was thinking
... oh, for goodness sake! But actually it's been quite positive. If the
structure's there ... If you don't have a good enough (...) um (...) you
know (...) public transport system ... then it all falls down." In the
case of using public transport, the local authority's system of rewards
and punishments won her over. However, in the absence of sanctions
on big business, the state requirement that households recycle waste
did not successfully recruit her to the practice, even though she was
encouraged by her children. Meg was much more convinced of the
anthropogenic case for climate change than Katrina and Vicky, but she
did not recycle while they did. The environmental affordances were
different for each of their families, even if some practices were shared.
In India, policy initiatives including Swachh Bharat have focused
on engaging individuals (particularly in low - income communities) in
maintaining public cleanliness (Roy, 2014). Collection and disposal of
household waste is provided by a range of actors, including municipal
councils and private companies, and supported by informal labour
(Anantharaman, 2014). The availability of services is closely aligned to
the purchasing power of individual households and communities, and
residents of low - income communities often have extremely limited
provision for waste disposal (Joshi et al, 2011). The regular collection
and disposal of household waste provided by local authorities across
England means that there is relatively less exposed rubbish in public
spaces, although provision of waste disposal services varies between
local authorities. Nonetheless, the overall difference in structural
provision between countries very likely accounts for why UK families
generally spoke less about waste disposal as an environmental concern
than those in India.
Identities as committed environmentalists: distanced environmental
concern?
Environmental concerns were somewhat removed from everyday life
for most of the more affluent families in the sample, and perhaps this
is not surprising, given that socioeconomic resources buffer against
the impacts of environmental shocks. But this relative distance has
implications for the ways in which environmental concern is situated in
family narratives. In this section, we focus on three families - Reethika's
family in India and Humphrey's and Helena's families in the UK - to
consider how pro - environmental concerns that might otherwise be
'distant' are woven into the families' narratives of their everyday lives
through narrative imagination and values for upbringing.
Biographically rooted understandings were evident in the narrative
framed by Reethika's mother, Parvathi. The family were landowners
and had moved to a city for education (while maintaining their land
and associated income). Parvathi and her husband spoke of making
their children aware that "people are suffering without water, and how
life will be without water in future", and in her individual interview,
Parvathi told a story of the complex labour involved in securing
drinking water in the village where she grew up, as in the following
extract from a longer account:
Parvathi: 'Water facility is less there, have to consume salt
water, otherwise have to fetch from streams, have
to dig holes in the stream and catch those; we used
to fetch in that way, had water problem and got
salt water, have to fetch in that way and everyone
in the village used to carry water by tying buckets
to a wooden pole on the corners and carry those.'
Parvathi ended her story with a dramatic closure: "now even that
[approach to securing water] is unavailable". In this way, she showed
her knowledge and personal experience, making clear that her
current comfortable situation (where the family had access to a bore
hole, and hence a secure water supply) did not diminish her personal
understanding.
In discussing the subjects of her environmental concern, Parvathi
offered a populated and sympathetic framing, not of an abstract other,
but of the tenant farmers on her family's land. Rather than distancing,
her narrative drew them closer through a biographically shared identity
 - "we were all born in agriculture families, did farming in the past,
and father - in - law does even now" - an identity she reinforced through
a detailed recounting of changing monsoon patterns. She noted,
however, that the crop loss caused by this climatic change had had
little direct impact on her family:
Parvathi: 'Loss means, nothing much, but not having
satisfaction. That is, we have leased our agriculture
lands for lease to the tenant farmers. There is
no proper yield for them. Even if they have
experienced loss we too have our requirements,
isn't it! You are aware of tenancy, they give tenancy
amount, and we are taking from them even in loss
period. And that too feels unsatisfactory. If there
is good harvest, it's good, we feel that, and there
is good harvest, which gives a different feel and
satisfaction.'
Parvathi further emphasised her sense of connection when she said:
"We do not have great respect for [the rent] collector, we have lots
of respect towards a farmer, used to be like that!" Later, she asserted
the value of this shared identity with a normative statement about
Indian culture, repeating twice that the "farmer is the backbone of the
nation". But the complexity of her moral position was also evident
in her distancing of herself and her family from the rent collector
that her family employed and her justification that "we too have our
requirements". She both claimed an identity as environmentally aware
and privileged family business over the difficulties of those affected by
environmental shocks, which did not affect her family because they
were socioeconomically buffered.
In inner - London, Humphrey's mother, Julia, set out an
environmentally engaged family identity and "the issue of trying
to live a sustainable life on the ground, which means that you are
thinking about the wider environment as you go about your day - to - 
day business". Like Parvathi, Julia offered a detailed listing of practices
 - in this case relating to energy use - demonstrating the knowledge
and thought underpinning her identity position as environmentally
responsible. Her narrative built up to the story of doing a big "reco - 
fit", and ended with the feeling of responsibility it engendered, having
"spent all this money":
Julia: 'You are thinking about the wider environment
as you go about your day - to - day business. So that
means you know (.) um (...) turning the lights
off, not leaving equipment on standby, keeping
the house somewhat cooler than some people
like. Um (...) boiling our kettle with gas instead
of electricity. Um (...) and we did do a big reco - 
fit, because the house was freezing um (...) so we
ventilated all of our outside walls and we put a new
roof on and we put in a photovoltaic and all that
kind of stuff. So you think well we [laughs] we
spent all this money and (...) used all of these (...)
calories, if you like. You know (...) in the grand
scheme of things in order to create this house, we
should do our best (...) not to then just relax into
normal usage.'
Humphrey's parents foregrounded their family environmental identity
by contrasting it to the environmentally ignorant or (un)concerned
'other', whom they problematised in contrast to their own knowledge
and concern:
Roger: 'So yes. But I mean you could (...) we're not
(...) hair shirt type things... you know, fanatics
or something. ... We, we think that if (...) if
everybody did (...) I suppose took the same
responsible position that we were taking, then
(.) the whole country's carbon footprint would
be, you know, we'd meet our targets that we're
supposed to be reducing by 2020 fairly easily I
would have thought.'
Julia: 'I think it's partly because we read the newspaper.
[Roger: mmm] I've (.) been quite (...) startled at
(...) intelligent, I thought well - informed people
(...) who just last year were not aware that fish
stocks were running out. Now, if you read the
paper ...'
Humphrey: 'Even I knew that.'
Julia: 'Well that's partly because we keep telling you.
[Joint laughter] I think that indicates people who
aren't reading the newspaper. Because it doesn't
get covered a lot on television and radio news.
[...] So it is partly simply that (.) people (.) just
don't know.'
This family identity was thus one that allowed them to see themselves as
more knowledgeable and aware even than people who were 'intelligent'
and otherwise 'well informed'. A commitment to environmental
practices enabled them to feel that they were helping the environment
as well as building social capital for themselves. Julia's response to
Humphrey's intervention, attempting to construct himself as like his
parents by implicitly decrying other people's lack of knowledge, helped
to illuminate some of the difficulties with expecting children to inform
their parents about environmental issues. Since Humphrey's parents
viewed themselves as highly knowledgeable, they viewed themselves
as his teachers, not vice versa.
The extract above also illuminates aspects of environmental identities
that families considered unattractive and unlikely to persuade others of
the climate change case. Roger's phrase 'hair shirt' environmentalism
was also used by Helena's father, James, who lived in a rural village
where Helena attended the local state school:
James: 'And I don't want to (...) I could spend my whole
time (...) um (...) in (...) um (...) threadbare woolly
pullovers. Never shave. And people would say,
"oh, James is great... [...] but (...) he's not really
with us. He's not in the real world." Whereas (...)
you know, because occasionally I put on a suit
and tie, because I drive a car [...] I like to think
they can see that my environmentalism doesn't
(...) phrase, it's not hair shirt environmentalism.
It's, it's, it's just ...'
Helena: 'Just German.'
James: 'Yes. [laughter] Herr Shirt! [laughter] Herr Shirt,
yeah.'
As with Roger's family, James and Helena emphasised the importance
of environmental concerns in their lives, detailing everyday practices to
reduce energy use. By rejecting the 'hair - shirt' character of 'Herr Shirt',
Roger and James defended their 'engaged' environmental identity from
a disparaging archetype (Smith and Howe, 2015). James explained:
"I'd like to seem terribly normal, but be doing everything I can ...' In
this way, they also established a moderate positioning that avoided a
charge of moral hypocrisy in relation to consumption practices such
as car use and overseas trips.
Conclusion
The examples presented in this chapter highlight the limitations of
conceptualising environmental concerns through an affluent Minority
world imaginary of the individual capitalist consumer protecting an
abstract pristine nature from uncivil others. The families discussed in
the chapter differ in many ways, including in terms of family structure,
socioeconomic and geographical location and the extent and focus
of their environmental concerns. By setting these diverse cases and
concerns in conversation with each other, we have aimed to respond
to Butler's (2004: 38) call 'to reimagine what it is to belong to a human
community in which common epistemological and cultural grounds
cannot always be assumed'. The analysis disrupts false and moralising
binaries - 'nature' and 'culture', 'global' and 'local', 'concerned' and
'unconcerned' and 'selfish' or 'altruistic' - aiming for a more complex
understanding of interdependence and environmental concern that is
fundamentally situated in concern for the family and for upbringing.
The juxtaposing of different families' accounts helps to illuminate the
complexity of environmental affordances, affected by the infrastructure
around them and linked to the families' socioeconomic positioning and
its intersection with the provision made by the state. Jamieson (2016:
340) suggests that '[l]evels of environmentally damaging consumption
typically track levels of affluence; the environmental consequences
might be called inadvertent'. In this study, more affluent families were
able to use their resources to avoid or mitigate the most problematic
effects of their environments on the family. The material interventions
used to minimise families' exposure to localised environmental hazards
often have ecological consequences that are felt by those for whom
these interventions are financially unattainable (Shiva, 2006).
The ways in which family members were able to negotiate their
environments, and their stated environmental practices, differed
according to how they understood climate change and how they
considered they could act on their environments. Yet, there were
commonalities across socioeconomic groupings in both India and
the UK that were produced by the intersection of the families'
understanding of environmental issues and what they believed they
could contribute to ameliorating climate change. A major issue here
was whether the families constructed climate change as anthropogenic
or simply as natural. It was noteworthy that families could deny that
humans were responsible for climate change (see Norgaard, 2011),
but continue to recycle because the state required it, or because
they disliked littering. Equally, families who believed that climate
change was anthropogenic sometimes did not recycle because they
considered it contributed little to overall climate change or because
they considered that their household commitments and relations of
care took precedence over attending to climate change.
For Chitra's and Nathan's families, the security of everyday family
life - while engendered in contextually specific ways - meant that
geographically proximal environmental hazards such as crime (in
London) and flooding (in Andhra Pradesh/Telangana) could be
distanced, and family life continued 'as normal'. For Reethika's,
Humphrey's and Helena's parents, environmental concerns were drawn
into family talk and family display as the morally responsible choice
of the good, 'green' parent. Overall, environmental affordances were
developed from the intersections of constructions of environment with
understandings of climate change, the material resources available to
the families, state environmental policies and whether they considered
they could act on their environments.
FIVE
Children are the future? Power,
generation and environmental practices
One day last October I found my five - year - old daughter, Rosa,
leafing through my passport ... The ensuing conversation went
something like this:
"How many times have you been on a plane to America?"
"About 40."
"And how many trees have you planted?"
"No trees."
... In the past year... Rosa has begun to recycle and energy - save
and spout eco policy ... I suspect I am a pawn in a covert re - 
education programme. I fear "pester power" is being organised
to leverage pro - environmental awareness in parents - we are
being bullied by a generation of pint - sized "eco - worriers".
(Odell, 31 January 2009, The Observer)
By 2050, impacts of climate change on mortality are projected
to be greatest in south Asia. These results indicate that climate
change will have a significant impact on child health by the
2030s. (The Hindu, 19 February 2017)
Introduction
Children are often responsibilised in environmental policy and media
discourses in both India and the UK. This is illustrated in Figure
5.1, which marked a 2016 collaboration between Amar Chitra Katha,
one of the largest comic book series in India, and the Ministry for
Urban Development (Venkaiah Naidu). Abstract evocations of future
generations materialise in many areas of climate change policy, based
on the ethical argument that, as those imagined to outlive current
generations of adults, children have the most to gain from activities
and policies seeking to sustain the environments of which they are
a part. Yet the centring of children in discourses of climate change
impact and response is not without practical and ethical problems.
Positioning children as 'undercover agents of change' for the
environmental movement is as much 'an abrogation of responsibility
for what are essentially the damaging environmental practices of
adults, as is 'offshoring' environmental responsibility to the next
generation of 'stewards of the earth' Uzzell (2016: 483). This chapter
illuminates reasons why this critique is so important, in contexts where
children may be simultaneously characterised in adult narratives of
environmentalism as a problematic and a vulnerable other.
The chapter addresses the generational positioning of children
within adult, child and family narratives of environmental concern
and environmental practice. In the multiple temporalities of family
relationships, we see how imagined futures are lived in the everyday,
helping us to understand environmental issues as negotiated in family
lives. We consider the dynamics of intergenerational positioning of
environmental concern: how adults position (and are positioned
by) children, and how children position themselves. By examining
how children and adults within families manage their environmental
concerns - for themselves, their families, and abstract and quotidian
others - the analysis shows that children are not merely passive
recipients of adult education and concerns. The research reveals
the constraints on children's agency within generational hierarchies
across diverse contexts, but also illuminates the ways in which they do
not fit with adult characterisations of the irresponsible, innocent or
vulnerable child. To understand the positioning of children in narratives
of environmental concern, and how we might more fruitfully engage
with their own environmental concerns, we need to consider how
these different characterisations compete and coalesce within family
narratives.
The chapter has three main sections. First, it considers the ways
in which some parents' narratives constructed children as threatened
by imagined environmental futures, with the child as the object of
parental environmental concern. Second, it discusses children's agency
in relation to environmental affordances, including how their agency
was constrained in various ways. Finally, it considers the ways in parents'
and children's intergenerational positioning was interlinked with
environmental concern, as some parents considered pro - environmental
concern an important value to pass on to their children, while others
also sought to protect their children from 'unbearable' climate change
messages in order to retain children's innocence and optimism.
Imagined futures: children as parents' objects of environmental concern
Chapter Three's discussion of Mamatha's, Chandrasekhar's and
Anand's families highlighted the ways in which socioeconomic
(in) security and the resulting precarity and hardship produces particular
environmental affordances in families' everyday lives. In rural England,
the experiences of Rosie and her family highlighted a very different
kind of environmental concern, linked to children's present wellbeing
and imagined futures. Rosie and her younger brother Peter were
among the 7% of UK children who attended a fee - paying school
(Independent Schools Council, 2016). Rosie's family had previously
lived overseas, and had moved back to the UK, and into their village
home, just over a year before. The move abroad and return to the
UK were partly prompted by employment opportunities for David,
Rosie's father, but were also attributed to hopes for upbringing and the
children's education, revealing a tension about the different affordances
for the children of their everyday environment in the two countries:
Sally: 'I'm very torn, and this last year I've wondered
whether I've (...) taken away their (.) childhood,
and replaced it with just education.'
Interviewer: 'So was that what brought you back from [different
country], or...?'
Sally: 'Work and (.) the fact that (.) we were offered
help with education. And it seemed like a great
opportunity. A family thing. So we (.) wanted
them to ... Have the best. We thought, you
know (...) but then I'd, within a very short
time wondered whether this is actually the best,
because now they've gone back to living quite
(...) [restrictive] (.) lives [...] there's a real funny
balance nowadays, isn't there? It's not the childhood
we had, put it that way.'
Sally's concerns here can be understood in light of a more fundamental
environmental threat: a proposed industrial development nearby,
which they learned about only after moving into the village. Their
fears for this development were told and retold across the interviews,
with reference to pollution risk and effects on local wildlife as well as
present and possible future impacts on the family. This environmental
threat is not equivalent to that experienced by the 'ecosystem families'
(in Guha's, 2006, typology) discussed in Chapter Three. Rosie's family
were not struggling to survive, but it was experienced by her parents
as an overwhelming risk to their everyday wellbeing and imagined
future lives, threatening the hopes that had brought them back to the
UK. Rosie and Sally highlighted the effects on their family:
Rosie: 'And she um (.) she goes to lots of meetings about
this [industrial development]. And she came home
one night and she's still got it a bit, she had a big
lump on her eye. And that [was' =
Sally: = 'Convinced that it's my stress.' [laughs] =
Rosie: = 'pretty gross]. And she's saying it was more to do
with like the stress of this and she'll come home all
weary, angry and ... So that can affect her mood.
A lot.' [laughs] [...]
Sally: 'Bearing in mind that we were hit with it sort of
not long after coming back and I was still coping
with coming back. So it wasn't great, wasn't great.'
This edited account highlights the immediacy and psychosocial nature
of their concern about the industrial development: it took time,
produced stress and was seen as giving rise to physical effects; Rosie
commented that Sally's anger with the situation spilt over into life at
home. Sally also made an important temporal link between the timing
of being "hit with" the industrial development and returning to the
UK, noting in another interview that "it has turned me a little bit
sour" in her feelings about others in the village.
When Sally spoke of moving back to the UK because they wanted
"the best" for their children, and when she commented on the loss of
a nostalgic vision of childhood, her remarks were inevitably coloured
by the ways in which the industrial development threatened her
imagined future family life. She spoke of the threat to local wildlife,
including endangered species, and described walking in "stunning"
countryside, "in the middle of nowhere, it's lovely". This is a familiar
affluent imaginary of environmental concern, concern for environment
as a place of consumption (Urry, 1995). While it has elements of a
common world approach in its focus on wildlife and countryside,
her narrative was partly framed as a threat to a pristine depopulated
nature, experienced as an embodied threat to the parents' aspirations
for a good childhood for their children.
Cushioned by socioeconomic security in the Minority world, the
planned development was primarily a threat to the imaginary of a good
childhood and a good family life. It had not yet begun at the time of
the interviews, and more concrete impacts, such as any effect on the
value of their house, were scarcely mentioned. Sally's concerns for her
(relatively) affluent UK family might be dismissed as 'NIMBYism' (Not
In My Back Yard), but as O'Hare and McClymont (2008) and others
have observed, this is an unhelpful concept, resting on a moral framing
of 'altruistic' versus 'selfish' environmental concerns. Compared with
the families discussed in Chapter Three, Sally's family faced vastly
different risks. Yet mothers in both India and the UK and in very
different circumstances were worried about environmental threats to
their families' present and future way of life.
Also in rural England, Helena's father, James, provided another
example of a worried parent, offering a narrative of environmental
concern that was focused on his imagined future for his daughter, in
this case centred on the effects of climate change. A single parent,
James lived with Helena in an English village where she attended
the local state school. He was a freelance professional whose work
involved overseas travel. Helena's mother lived nearby and Helena
stayed with her regularly. They were typical of the rural sample in
England in having moved from the city to the countryside to provide
a better childhood. The future concerns that James described need to
be understood in the context of the strongly environmentally engaged
identity that both he and Helena set out in their interviews, depicting
environment, in Helena's words, as "wherever you are [...] everywhere,
and all, all round the world". James and Helena presented a joint
narrative of anthropogenic environmental change, and of practices that
connected them to the land, including attempts to grow their own
vegetables, and walking in the countryside with the family dog. But,
in his individual interview, James expressed his fears for the impact of
climate change on Helena's future life:
James: 'You know, I (...) I (...) when I hear ... some
extreme weather I, I think, yeah, and this is going
to happen more and more. And I get worried
(...) you know, will she get insurance? When
she's 50 (...) maybe she's got a couple of kids.
Hopefully she's got a partner (...) and (...) will she
get insurance for that? Will insurance be viable?
Will, you know (...) what happens when? You
know, we've got fences here. Maybe you, maybe
by then you won't have fences because the (...)
there'll be too (...) it's one less thing to blow down
if you don't have a fence. Um (...) what about
trees? We need trees. But even healthy trees get
blown down. Got an ash in the garden (...) might
get the die - back disease. Um (...) I worry in that
sense. Yeah.'
Interviewer: 'Mmmm. Do you think those are things that
Helena worries about?'
James: 'I hope not in the sense that I hope she's still
enjoying the innocence of her childhood. It's not
something I want to (...) get her too aware of. I
like to encourage the sort of (...) um (...) being
economical with resources. Thrift.'
This vivid imagining was local, personal and populated with Helena's
future self as well as their contemporary family. As with Sally's
environmental concerns, the future story that James told resonates
with Weintrobe's (2012: 43) depiction of the 'unbearable anxiety' of
environmental concern that 'undermines our belief in a reliable future
[...] and our hope that we are generative, that our children will have
children who will have children into the future'.
The merging of personal and societal interest was evident in James's
detailed narrative linking of present and future, which positioned
Helena as the object of future fears about the environment. He
managed his fear by teaching Helena about "being economical with
resources", and defused the tension in his account using humour, as
he went on to joke about Helena saving yoghurt pots:
James: 'But we've (...) still got to (...) you know (...) It's
good husbandry of resources. And I, I teach her
that. I, you know (...) even to the point where
she doesn't throw anything away, which can be
a bloody nightmare. [...] often she won't throw
away um (...) the container that she's had things in.
She'll say, no, we can wash that; it might come in
useful. As an idea that's great. Except you end up
with a whole load of yoghurt pots that (...) you
know you'll never use. Um (...) but they might
come in useful [laughs]. One day. For something.
That you can't imagine and probably never will
happen. I like the spirit of it so I encourage it.'
There was a stark contrast between James's approval of Helena's small - 
scale agency in not wasting potential resources (for example, yoghurt
pots) and her future orientation in doing so, and the potential horror
of a future he feared (when Helena is 50 years old and struggling with
the effects of climate change on her family).
Making the most of environmental affordances: constraints on children's
situated agency
To Shove and colleagues' (2012) conceptualisation of practices as
dependent on meanings, skills and materials, a common world
approach might add whether, and if so, how and why particular
practices matter. Children who had access to high carbon resources
(including technological objects such as iPads, mobile telephones,
television sets and computers) recognised the ways in which these
materials were embedded in taken - for - granted quotidian practices,
necessary for school work and socially important for friendships and
play. In a digital age, online and offline lives co - exist (Livingstone and
Bulger, 2014), in school and leisure activities. Solomon - who lived
with his mother and siblings in a block of flats in London - explained
that he interspersed his digital play with other activities: "[I] go on
it [the PlayStation] one hour, turn off, one hour, turn off, one hour,
turn off." He took pictures to represent this mix: the PlayStation
and television where he plays a football game, and the green space
on his estate where he plays football outdoors (see Figure 5.2). His
photographs highlighted the spatial expansions that the PlayStation
affords (Oswell, 2013).
Other children in both India and the UK also illustrated the
prominence of electronic resources in their daily lives. Nageshwar,
who lived in a city in Andhra Pradesh/Telangana where he attended
an international school, described his usual Sunday:
Nageshwar: 'Morning, waking up late. Playing computer,
eating lunch and then going to friends' house.
Evening uh, with my family going to uh, some
other place.'
Rosie, in rural England, talked about her iPad, which her parents
had purchased to help her keep in touch with far - off friends after the
family had moved back to England from abroad. As well as overseas
friendships, Rosie used the iPad to communicate with new school
friends across a shorter, but still significant, distance:
Rosie: 'We do Facetime together - that's how sad we are
 - we Facetime each other from our house, and it's
the weekend. And we're going to see each other
the next day.'
Among its multiple affordances, the iPad enabled the continuation
of Rosie's school - based social life within the physical space of her
home, compressing the affordances of the two spaces (Harvey, 1989).
Her account underlined why the iPad mattered so much to her.
Technological objects also had particular significance for children in
rural Andhra Pradesh/Telangana; for example, Chitra said she enjoyed
watching television at home because she had few friends and leisure
possibilities nearby.
Such accounts are typical of the lives of children globally who are
growing up in a digital age. They fit with a common world approach,
where technological affordances are increasingly important for adults
and children, but they do not imply that children in the study were
apathetic or ignorant of environmental considerations. Many children
expressed concerns about global and local environmental issues, even
while recognising the constraints on their agency to act on those
concerns. The following fast - paced discussion in a focus group in
an international school in Hyderabad indicates how children have to
negotiate environmental issues in relation to use of technology.
Interviewer: 'Is there anything that you've learnt about at school
that made you want to do something differently at
home?'
Aamir: 'Um, to be honest, I actually tried to change some
things in my house but then I am lazy enough
to just leave it and like, never mind anything
[laughs] [...] I tried to cut short the usage of ACs
[air conditioning] and all, but I kind of um, I'm
addicted to those sort of things. Using the gadgets
more often. [...]'
Naren: 'Uh, I wanted to stop the use of the computers - 
not actually stop but lessen the use because I read
this - that every - every click of the mouse, we
 - we give off carbon fumes ... So till after some
time, till after not even a month I have - I have
not been able to stop the use of computers.'
Amrutha: '[I only stop it] like if we get some exams or
something.'
Interviewer: 'Ok, so for all of you would you say that using
computers, and using AC, like Aamir said, is part
of your life?'
Amrutha: 'Yeah.'
Jahnavi: 'Like almost every day we get like a research task,
like information ... But the thing is that if I sit in
front of the computer, I open Skype, then I see
something else, and [then' =
Sandeep: = 'Facebook' =
Jahnavi: = 'so that's how] we - yeah, Facebook!'
These children expressed awareness that 'big' and 'small' environmental
issues were linked and that their use of technology had environmental
consequences. Their discussion highlighted the psychosocial nature of
environmental affordances, invoking notions of inertia and addiction,
even as they noted that their (affluent) school required the use of
computers. Technological affordances are part of the common world
in being relational, simultaneously non - human, and the means by
which children and young people draw on global links (even if they
are not themselves communicating with people in other countries).
The technological environment is thus part of the common world in
multiple ways.
While for Katrina (Callum's mother) and Vicky (Oliver's mother),
in Chapter Four, concern about littering and waste was partly an
aesthetic concern for a pristine unspoiled nature, young people's
concerns about waste disposal sometimes had more direct implications
for the safety and accessibility of outdoor space in both India and the
UK. In inner - London, Tamsin, Nathan's sister, said she preferred to
stay at home with her iPad than go to the local park because it lacked
resources and was strewn with rubbish; in Hyderabad, Rahul expressed
concerns about rubbish dumping near the family home.
Interviewer: 'Who throws garbage there [in an open space close
to Rahul's home that he has just described in his
interview] (.) do you know?'
Rahul: 'All the people who live in the area.'
Interviewer: 'In the area, OK (.) yeah. So what do you think
could be different about that? What would you
like to see changed there?'
Rahul: 'Uh, we should keep, uh, one big garbage over
[tailing off in English then switching into Telugu].
We should put one big garbage bin there so that
it does not pollute the air' [...]
Interviewer/Interpreter: 'Is there no dustbin?'
Rahul: 'They get the dustbin but take it away after a while
and don't replace it.'
Rahul's assessment of the problem highlighted his knowledge of how
the waste should be managed; he identified the problem (the bin is
taken away for emptying and not replaced) and offered a solution (a
larger bin). Through this co - constructed account we see how Rahul
exercised a form of political agency - pointing out, and imagining
alternatives to, the inadequate garbage collection in his community.
He went on to take a photo of the garbage he was concerned about
(see Figure 5.3).
With the researchers' encouragement, Rahul pointed out his concerns
to his father, Vinod, when they passed the site during the mobile
interview, and Vinod encouraged Rahul to exercise a more direct
form of political agency by emailing the local authority:
Vinod: 'We have to complain to GHMC [Greater
Hyderabad Municipal Corporation]. There will be
a portal for GHMC, no? [Rahul: 'Yes.'] We have
to send an email in that portal. And they will take
care of this.'
While Rahul's father's suggestion still relied on an individual doing
something (in this case, emailing the local council), it reflected an
assessment that necessary changes can only take place when local
authorities act in responsible ways (as well as apparent faith that the
local authority "will take care of this"). This view had commonalities
with those of others in the study (see Chapter Three) who highlighted
the limitations of individual action and the need for government
interventions to improve the environment, but it was also an example
of a parent taking seriously a child's environmental messages and
encouraging his agency.
Antonia attended state school in London, where she lived with
her parents (both working professionals) and two siblings. She gave
an account of constrained agency in relation to environmental issues,
even while highlighting occasional guilt about her practices:
Antonia: 'Sometimes when I'm using electricity and stuff - I
kind of know about global warming and all that
stuff ... and I kind of feel like I'm a part of this
big thing that's causing global warming. [...] I kind
of (...) I feel a bit bad, but then I also know that
me, individually, I can't really do anything about
global warming as much as I'd like to. [...] I can't
do a lot against it.'
Interviewer: 'What do you think is the best way that people
can do more?'
Antonia: 'I think if there was someone with quite a powerful
position, like Barack Obama [then President of the
US] or David Cameron [then Prime Minister of
the UK] ... I think if they sent the message out and
if, if they got (...) just (...) if they sent the message
out and they got lots of people kind of aware of
this kind of thing, then (...) quite a lot could be
done.'
Like Rahul, Antonia identified political action as a way forward,
but in this case (and apparently contradicting her argument that
individual action had limited value) her account seemed to return
responsibility to the individual, invoking the much - critiqued ABC
model (Attitudes - Behaviour - Cognition) discussed in Chapter One.
Her framing was partly co - constructed by the interviewer asking how
"people can do more", but was clearly the main way in which she
envisaged change, highlighting her constrained agency. In rural Andhra
Pradesh/Telangana, Chandrasekhar also drew attention to the limits of
possible action as he related family practices designed to improve the
area immediately around their home, including working with his father
to clear drains blocked by weeds and rubbish. He recognised that the
best solution - provision of a paved road through the community - was
beyond the family's agency "because we don't have money". Family
practices such as clearing the drains are examples of environmental
affordances and 'thin agency', 'decisions and everyday actions that are
carried out within highly restrictive contexts, characterised by few
viable alternatives' (Klocker, 2007: 85).
Jack's family lived in an English village where the children attended
local state schools. Like Antonia, his parents, Mary and Julian, were
working professionals. Jack's parents placed strong emphasis on
environmentally sustainable values and Jack also set out a strong identity
as knowledgeable and concerned about climate change and sustainable
practices. In his individual interview he spoke about the need for
macro political changes (such as investment in nuclear and tidal energy)
and cited vegetarianism as an example of individual action, while
emphasising the difficulties of completely changing one's way of life:
Jack: 'I'm try (...) I've got, I've got a book, one I got
from the library. It's how to reduce your carbon
footprint. And I've had it out a few times. Um (...)
it's (...) and we've done some stuff. And um (...)
just (...) you, it's, it's kind of that feeling that you
try and try and try, but you're never going to get
anywhere. [...] However hard we try we just (...)
um (...) we can't do that much effectively if we
want to completely, unless you want to completely
change our way of life, which is quite ...'
Interviewer: 'So do you think there's anything that can be done?'
Jack: 'Yes, there is. That, I, I'm trying to (...) stop, like
um ... There is lots of things that can be done.
[...] there's also like going vegetarian, which would
help, but (...) I can't see me doing it. I really can't
see me doing it.'
Interviewer: 'You're not that keen on vegetarian food?'
Jack: 'No.'
Interviewer: 'Is anyone in the family vegetarian?'
Jack: 'Um (...) I know there was for, um, a few years.
And then um (...) [laughs] when I was little I did
it for a week [joint laughter]. I ate loads of eggs.
[...] I ate loads of eggs and vegetables. Oh, um (...)
but it all ended when (...) er [laughs] it all ended
when we had some chicken.'
Interviewer: [Laughs] 'Hard to resist.'
Jack: 'Hard to resist.'
These children's narratives show that even in constrained circumstances,
they were not ignorant of environmental issues, but were keen to act
as much as they could, given the affordances they saw, sometimes
in concert with other family members. For those whose family
socioeconomic resources gave them environmental choices, attempting
to behave in ways they and their families considered pro - environmental
sometimes entailed a struggle against habits, preferences and competing
demands (such as school requirements).
Generational positioning and environmental concern
Contemporary discussions of climate change response frequently
emphasise individual moral responsibility and - as indicated by
Figure  5.1 and the newspaper extract that opened this chapter - 
children are often assigned a particular role as 'agents of change'.
Families, however, generally take a more nuanced approach. The telling
of 'moral tales' is a family practice, providing ethical accounts that are in
part shaped by public discourses of the morally responsible family, but
also based in everyday practices (including gendered practices of care
and upbringing) and rooted in complex and interdependent networks
and sets of relationships (Morgan, 2013). Moral tales are part of 'doing
family' and producing family 'myths' - intergenerational stories that
guide action and construct family identities (Bertaux and Thomson,
1993). In relation to concern about the environment, parental or
upbringing practices took two main forms: efforts to engender
responsibility in relation to (environmentally) ethical principles; and
making bearable the fears that might follow from environmental
concern.
Parents' framing of environmental concern as a value for upbringing and family
life
Relatively affluent families in both India and the UK often constructed
moral tales of responsible privilege that were framed in relation to
values for upbringing, and environmental concern. In London, for
example, Antonia's parents talked of teaching the children about
environmental issues and embedding environmental practices as a
mundane part of their lives:
Hugh: 'Yeah. We do, you know, we do talk about
environmental issues. Um (...) so we talk about
you know (...) um (...) I mean global warming's
quite big on the agenda at their schools, so
you know, they, they come back and initiate
conversations about climate change (...) and, and,
and have views on that. And you know, we'll sit
and discuss that round the (...) dinner table. [...]
Um (...) and you know, we try and involve them in
(...) thinking about using the recycling ... scheme
properly. Um (...) you know, we try and involve
them in, in, in sort of walking and cycling rather
than nagging us to drop them off places.'
Interviewer: 'Yeah. And do they nag you to drop them off
places?'
Hugh: 'Yeah. Yeah. They do. I mean particularly Adrian
[Antonia's 14 - year - old brother]. Yeah. And we
generally say no. [...] Um [laughs] ... You know,
we get them to think about energy use. I mean
we've had a, had a little bit, a little bit of a drive
recently to try and get Adrian to spend less time
in the shower [...] because of you know sort of
issues of hot water use.'
Hugh recognised the children's contribution to family discussions of
climate change, and in her individual interview Antonia also observed
that these dinner table conversations were part of their habitual family
practices. But Hugh's narrative was exclusively centred on the parents'
efforts to educate and adapt the children's practices. The oldest
child, Adrian, was drawn as a stereotypical teenager, nagging to be
given lifts and wasting hot water. Hugh characterised the children as
both educated and in need of education, revealing the limits of their
capacity to act as agents of change. Later in the same interview, Hugh
commented: "I can't think of a specific example of anything that any
of them have (...) come home from school talking about that's meant
that we've changed our (...) family practices."
Children's use of technology was a recurrent topic of adult concern,
often presented as an example of young people's taken - for - granted high
carbon practices. For example, in Hyderabad, Amrutha's family also set
out a strong identity position of environmental awareness and concern.
They lived within a gated community where Vijay, Amrutha's father,
said his wife and children spent "90% of their lives", and Amrutha
and her sister attended an international school. Like Rosie's family in
England, they had previously lived overseas, and their narratives often
incorporated comparison between the different places in which they
had lived. Environmental concerns were narratively linked to their
identity as a cosmopolitan and globalised family, integrating practices
and perspectives from their time in the global north into their lives
and identities in an Indian context. Narratives of responsible privilege
were often framed through a repeatedly expressed parental concern
that their children's lives were (too) separate from the 'real India', as
Vijay explained.
Amrutha's family map (see Figure 5.4) made visible the complexity
of the 'families they live by' (Gillis, 1997). Markers of globalised
consumption (such as movies and the local mall), and universal
practices of affluent childhoods (such as tennis and music lessons),
were juxtaposed with practices that emphasised traditional Indian
values and 'responsible privilege', such as shopping for vegetables at
the local farmer's market and visiting temples or a local orphanage on
the children's birthdays.
In both the children's and the parents' accounts, environmental concern
was populated, but situated at a distance from the comforts of the gated
community. In a family discussion of water scarcity, Amrutha and
her younger sister Alekhya framed a distanced concern for the other,
drawing on knowledge gained in school, as in Amrutha's distinction
between urban dwellers who "waste water" and "like people, like tribes
who live in forests, they don't have taps like we do or something".
Their parents, by contrast, discussed water scarcity in relation to their
own upbringing, referencing traditional Indian values as helpful in
teaching the children about responsible privilege:
Vijay: 'And that's the reality, that's what we were talking
about where life is so shielded out here, pretty
comfortable and this is not the true [India life' =
Aruna: = 'maybe more than] books they have learnt it
from there only because when we go there they'll
be given only half bucket full of water and they
have to take bath with that - that water only'.
Amrutha's parents' concern that she and her sister did not live in the
'true' India was echoed by a similar contrast that Amrutha drew, in her
individual interview, between her own 'luxurious life' and the lives of
people living in poverty in rural areas:
Interviewer: 'And ... when ... you see reports of other people
whose lives are affected by things which are
happening in the environment - how does that
make you feel?'
Amrutha [speaking in English]: 'It makes me feel bad, I mean, we
have such a luxurious life and people in the rural
 - rural areas - a tongue - twisting word! In those
areas, they, like, are poor, they're not educated.'
In Chapter Three, we saw how socioeconomic resources could
ameliorate potential environmental discomfort due to pollution.
Retreat from heat, as a key source of discomfort for families in a
region of India where temperatures often rise to 45°C in summer,
was also resource dependent. In keeping with adult narratives of
responsible privilege, air conditioning was highlighted as a necessary
consumption practice, and moreover as a practice of care, by both
Aamir's and Amrutha's mothers. Aamir's mother, Zoya, explained that
air conditioning was 'not a luxury', but was purchased as a necessity for
her father's health. Zoya also spoke of trying to reduce air conditioning
use to "develop this habit in [the children], like how to avoid wastage",
drawing a generational contrast:
Zoya: 'In my childhood I did not know what AC is.
Only when I go to some big hi - fi place I used to
feel that when I was very small, like my children,
like I have come to a very big place, where see it
has AC, air - conditioning, AC. But now it is very
common, for my children it is very common
thing, like how we switch on the light, how we
switch on the fan. AC is like the same for them.'
Zoya's positioning of herself as the expert within this narrative is
consistent with other research that highlights generational hierarchies
in families (for example, Robson et al, 2007). But air conditioning
and water use were not only taken for granted as necessary practices
for children, as we see in Zoya's account of her own routine when
coming back to the house during the heat of summer:
Zoya: 'When I come back home it is terribly hot, I take
bath, eat my lunch and then switch on AC and
take a nap for some time.'
There was little discussion among families about the disjuncture
between adult narratives of the need to educate children to be
environmentally responsible, and parents' justification of their own
carbon practices within environmentally responsible identity positions.
This is perhaps not surprising. In the UK, while survey data suggest
that the majority of adults express concern about climate change (for
example, Randall, 2011), intergenerational exchanges within the home
about the environment are limited - in some cases this is because
children's knowledge disrupts the role of the parent as 'expert' (for
example, Duvall and Zint, 2007).
Amrutha's family partly framed environmental practices as a contrast
between tradition and modernity (as in their discussion of water
use, above), but they also narrated environmental responsibility as a
practice of modernity learned abroad, drawing on their experiences
of living in the Minority world. Alekhya spoke of learning about
the environmental threat to polar bears through a cousin overseas,
Aruna talked of having 'learnt' recycling when living overseas, and
Amrutha and Vijay both talked of learning about 'carpooling' when
living abroad. For example:
Aruna: '[Recycling] is a good thing I learnt it, I should
apply it in India as well, I mean in my day - to - day
basis as well. Even my maid knows about it - 
"Amma where should I put this?" - "Drop it in
that bag."' [...]
Amrutha: 'Like in America we used to carpool. Like there
were like three of us people in our complex used
to go to the same school, so we used to carpool.
But then other people they like - they pollute the
air a lot like, they go by different cars to the same
place, even though they live in the same place, like
near or something. And that's like causing a lot of
air pollution, so I'd recommend them to carpool
or something like that, or go by school bus.'
Through their interviews, Amrutha's parents repeated a framing
of environmental concern as characteristic of India's developing
modernity, described by Vijay as "catching up today" (with the
Minority world). In this context, it is striking that Aruna's account
(above) of her (transnational) recycling knowledge was centred on
teaching her (less knowledgeable) maid. Later, she and Vijay told a
joint story that attributed the maid's purported lack of environmental
concern in managing the family's rubbish to Indian cultural norms.
Interviewer: 'Umhmm and what do you - you think the reason
is for the maid not putting (.) the rubbish [in the
chute?' =
Aruna: = 'They're in a rush], they just want to fly away.
[...] Many times I tell them, "throw it in the bin".
They look at me as if they don't understand my
language? Hindi mein bolo (tell them in Hindi)
they won't understand, if you talk in English they
won't understand, you tell them in Telugu, they
won't understand. [They just stare at me like this
and just go away' =
Vijay: = 'I think it's part of, part of =] Yeah, I think it's
just part of the culture. Um if you compare India
with, let's say US or UK, we keep our house clean
but not our surroundings.'
In her individual interview, Amrutha reprised her parents' narrative
of maids not knowing how adequately to dispose of rubbish. The
family's sympathetic framing of the remote villager sat in contrast to
their problematising account of the maid, and the vexed question of
whose rubbish it was remained unspoken. Their accounts illuminated
the ways in which uncomfortable socioeconomic inequalities may
be obscured in narratives of responsible privilege. Even when their
narrative imagination drew environmental concerns into the family's
comfortable everyday life, the objects of concern remained distant
and othered.
Through these accounts, Vijay, Aruna and Amrutha put boundaries
around family membership, situating their environmental concern
within a privileged moral position as part of an 'élite consensus'
(Swyngedouw, 2013), ahead of uncivil others who were 'catching
up'. Their attempts to engage their daughters in morally (and
environmentally) responsible activities served to sustain their élite moral
position into the next generation. Such narratives constituted family
display, creating a shared identity as an environmentally aware family
who, while they lived in India, had gained superior understanding by
living in the Minority world.
The families discussed in this section filtered their environmental
concerns through narratives of privileged responsibility and knowledge.
Some lower - income families also prioritised environmental concern
as a value for upbringing and framed their narratives of responsibility
around scarcity rather than responsible affluence. In rural Andhra
Pradesh/Telangana, Dharani's family showed how children could bring
their awareness of environmental issues to their family's attention and
gain support for their perspectives, as became evident in the family
discussion of the research vignette on water use. Dharani's parents
and grandparents recalled Dharani coming home from school with
stories of what would happen if people did not reduce their water
consumption. They encouraged her to tell one such story in the
family interview.
Rani (mother): 'How was the story you told us, after coming
back?'
Dharani: 'One son comes, "Grandpa, Grandpa, why are
we taking a bath only once a week?" ... Then,
people of previous generations used more, they
created shortage for us. If they prevented each
drop of water, had they used like this, this situation
would not have come. Grandfather told this, his
grandfather.'
This story, which Dharani recalled being told by a teacher, presents
a clear causative chain between the resource use of one generation
and the possibilities for resource use of subsequent generations. It
highlights both the wisdom of older generations and the need for
intergenerational cooperation. The knowledge on which the story is
based may not be new to older family members, yet they appeared to
have appreciated Dharani's telling of this story, which connected her
school knowledge to their historical experience.
Protecting innocence? Making environmental concerns bearable
Intergenerational links and legacies were also of concern to James,
Helena's father. His concern to protect Helena's innocence of the
consequences of climate change (described above) highlights a specific
problem with calls to (environmental) action that rely on invoking
fear. Faced with unbearable anxiety, families strive to find protective
strategies, particularly for their children. In Sally's account of her
involvement in protesting the planned industrial development, she
noted that the local landowner had threatened her with legal action,
and joked: "If I'm shot with a pheasant shooting rifle, you'll know
who it was. My head's on the wall." Sally's joke was perhaps possible
because her family were in most ways secure, but her use of humour
was also a protective strategy. Rosie also joked, twice talking about
moving to the moon in response to her mother's talk about the threat
of industrial development. For example, when Sally said: "And what
are we leaving them? [...] You know, what's the legacy we're leaving
behind?", Rosie replied: "We're going to the moon apparently."
Rosie's joke disrupted Sally's expression of concern for her children's
imagined future, making things safe for herself and her mother through
a light - hearted, imagined alternative. Other families also brought
humour or notions of 'fun' into family narratives of environmental
concern. And - as with Rosie's reference to the moon - these accounts
often drew on distant or abstract symbolism, distancing a potentially
unbearable future.
The polar bear as a symbol of globalised environmental concern
was woven into several families' narratives of environmental practice.
For example, Amrutha's mother, Aruna, told a small story about air
conditioning use:
Aruna: 'One quick [story] you can call it as a joke, if I
switch on the AC in my car, my kids will shout,
Amma you are increasing the global warming,
switch it off, polar bears will die [laughs]. Every
time this is the fight in the car. [...] We just laugh
[laughs]. We keep telling them it is not just because
we switch on the AC, it is one of the factors
though.'
Interviewer: 'So then what happens, who wins?'
Aruna: 'Definitely them, you cannot argue with them,
then after a couple of minutes they will forget
and then I will switch it on. I am not supposed
to lie though [laughs]. Especially this girl is very
particular: "Let's open the windows and we drive,
because we will be killing the polar bears." I say:
"Where do you see polar bears here?" [laughs]
She heard this one from her sister, and just that
point went into her brains maybe and since then
this is what, and whenever she turns on the AC
when she wants to sleep, I tell her "polar bears
are crying, why are you switching on the AC?"
[laughs] Sooo.'
Amy's family also joked about helping polar bears. Her mother Meg
(discussed in Chapter Four in relation to her scepticism that recycling
made a difference) said she was prompted by "drilling in the ...
Antarctic you know" to sponsor a polar bear to "bring aspects of it
here":
Meg: 'So I mean, thinking about it we, you know (...)
recently we have tried to sort of (...) bring aspects
of it here. Sort of like the polar bear thing that we
did ... [Amy: 'Oh yeah.'] ... recently, where we,
we sort of (...) um ...'
Amy: 'Sponsored a polar bear.'
Meg: 'But then again, it's very removed, isn't it. I mean,
you know, I did say to the children that you know,
we've got a polar bear; they're going to deliver it
soon. But they um ...'
Amy: 'Mum.'
Meg: 'Yes.'
Amy: 'You said no more animals.'
Meg: 'That's what I said. The Greenpeace man said I
could have a polar bear.'
Amy: 'Mum. Imagine what a polar bear would do to
[family pet]. [...] Mum! Imagine what it would
do to you!'
Meg: [Laughs] 'You know, you can think about that
and think about ... But actually it's so far removed.
You know, we're talking about drilling in the Ar,
Antarctic you know. It's (...) so ... yes, we discussed
it and thought ... [...] it's awful and we'd like to
help and support that. But ... Actually (...) you
know, we signed up for it, we (...) got all the
booklet and we, we read through that. [...] But
um ... [Amy: 'Mum.') Yeah. It's not something
that we sort of (...) live and breathe every day, is
it ...?'
Amy: 'And if we did have a polar bear what would
happen if you (...) um (...) forgot to feed it?'
Meg: 'He would eat one of you. It would be absolutely
fine. And it would be a friendly polar bear. The
Greenpeace man said so.'
Both Meg and Aruna positioned polar bears outside their immediate
environment. While Aruna joked "where do you see polar bears
here?", in Meg's telling, the joke was that the family were waiting
for the polar bear to be delivered and Amy joined in, reminding her
mother that polar bears were too dangerous to live in their home. For
both families, the use of humour was distancing, making clear that
the polar bear was not part of the family, even as they were drawn
into the family narrative. It enabled a family display of environmental
concern that was fun rather than threatening, emphasised in Meg's
summative comment that the polar bear was "not something that we
sort of (...) live and breathe every day". While the invoking of polar
bears at first seems to be part of a common world approach, the jokey
distancing makes them extreme conceptually as well as physically
remote and exotic, rather than part of a common world. In doing so,
it paradoxically dilutes environmental responsibility for practices that
might harm polar bears.
Phoebe, who lived in a socioeconomically disadvantaged area
of London with her parents (who both worked) and two siblings,
was sceptical about children's agency in changing family practices
across generational hierarchies, as illustrated in a light - hearted family
discussion in relation to the vignette about water use:
Phoebe: 'Like there will, like she'll tell her parents and
they won't listen like [...] And then um (...) like
so they'll just keep on using it and then there will
be like a drought and then they'll like realise that
they should have like saved the water.'
Interviewer: 'Why do you think the parents wouldn't listen?'
Phoebe: 'Because they care like, not, not more about their
house than their child. But they don't like, because
they just think it's not like (...)'
Nicholas (younger brother): 'They're too clean.'
Phoebe: 'No. They're like just thinking it's just a thing
they've [the school] made up to make them like
be interested in but it's not like ...'
Interviewer: [...] 'Yeah. So any other opinions?'
Colin (father): 'Yeah. I think they would come home and they would
have a sensible discussion ... [joint laughter] ...
and work out ... [joint laughter] ... water saving
devices. [...] Like putting a brick in the toilet.
Only showering.'
Joanna: 'They'd love it wouldn't they?'
Colin: 'Sharing the bath water.'
Phoebe: 'Eugh.'
Colin: 'And that's what I think they would do.' [joint
laughter]
Within narratives of responsible privilege, raising awareness of less
fortunate others, two of the more affluent UK families - Oliver's
and Marnie's - told stories of holidays in Africa involving visits to
village communities. Saskia, Marnie's mother, explicitly attributed
her children's understanding of water use to their village visit, saying:
"They're conscious of water as well, because we took them to Africa
for an experience [...] and we went into a village where they have
to get water from a well." But Hudson, Marnie's younger brother,
disrupted his mother's moral tale, interrupting eight times to repeat
that the experience was "really fun". Towards the end of the narrative,
Marnie joined in her mother's moral framing:
Marnie: 'It made me think that my life is like (...) extremely
like (...) I'm privileged to have (...) this, this ... [...]
And then when you think about, like somebody
will say, oh I want a bigger house and I want (...)
a nice car, it's like (...) like you [inaudible] like the
people in Africa don't have anything. They don't
say to them, I want a nice car, I want a nicer house,
because they have to work really, really hard [...].'
Saskia: 'We tried to give these guys respect for the planet,
because they are rather lucky I think just to have
all the nice, the simple things that come into their
life, like water, food, and nice schools. Um so we
do like to give them a bit of the Wild West every
now and then just to ... [laughter] ... just to ground
them.'
At this point, Hudson interjected again, drawing Marnie back to a
definition of these memories as a fun, rather than learning, experience:
Hudson: 'It was really fun when we were sitting down on
the floor when (...) even if you was like (...) even
if I hadn't eat with my hands before, like with like
really got messy. And I, and I didn't know (...)
I thought there was no wa (...) I thought there
was water but I wasn't, you had to like wash your
hands with a cloth. And it was much different to
England.'
Marnie: 'Ate everything of the chicken, didn't we; every
bit of the chicken including its eggs inside it, its
head, [I] was nibbling on the head.'
This narrative of giving the children "a bit of the Wild West" in order to
ground them corresponds with Wetherell and Potter's (1992) culture - 
as - therapy discourse. Marnie and Saskia contrasted less fortunate others
who "don't have anything" with the normative, "the nice, the simple"
things of the modern Minority world, while for Hudson, cultural
strangeness was fun to consume and hence not disadvantageous. A
different framing was evident in Oliver and his brother's observations
about their visit to an African village. They also drew a contrast with
their own taken - for - granted modernity, but here, the other's lack of
resources was naturalised and hence not constructed as a problem:
Oliver: 'I mean it would be really (...) annoying if we
didn't have electricity from now. But if we'd never
had electricity it wouldn't make much difference.
[...]'
Max: 'If we started living with electricity but we didn't
have it (...) it would just be (...) bad. But if we
started without electricity (...) it would be fine
because we wouldn't know (...) like (...) what it
would be like to have it. And it would just be fine.'
Vicky: 'We've met children that haven't had electricity,
haven't we?'
Oliver: 'Yeah. But ...'
Interviewer: 'When you were in Tanzania?'
Vicky: 'I think so yes. [...] They didn't know they didn't
have it.'
Oliver: 'If you start with it and then you don't have it, you
know what it feels like. But if you start without it
(...) you just won't know and then you'll just (...)
be happy.'
For Hudson, Oliver and Max, their experiences apparently
emphasised difference; they did not produce feelings of environmental
responsibility, solicitude or mutual recognition. Their parents'
aim of getting the children to recognise their privilege was only
partially met, leaving a gap between the taken - for - grantedness of
environmental resource use in the Minority world and the inability
to link this psychosocially with people's lives in the Majority world.
For both sets of children discussed above, such visits did not produce
a common world perspective. There was no real discussion of what
'responsibility' meant or of what the children were meant to do as a
consequence. Uzzell's (1999: 401) distinction between three planes
of environmental education is relevant here: while the children may
have been positioned by their parents as 'acquiring learning', it was
less clear that they were 'developing concern' or 'solution finding'.
Punch's (2015) admonition to use 'cross - world' analyses and Taylor's
(2013) common world perspective do not appear to operate at the level
of familial practices for these children from the Minority world who
have some experience of the Majority world. However, the analysis
does show, as Punch suggests, some of the ways in which lives lived
in the Majority and Minority worlds are interlinked.
Conclusions
In contexts where socioeconomic resources protect against quotidian
environmental hazards, environmental concerns can be made proximal
within the family as a practice of upbringing and responsible privilege,
but some parents are concerned to do this in ways that they hope will
not threaten what they construct as childhood innocence. Humour and
fun make environmental concern bearable, distanced into an apparently
altruistic concern for a benign, unfortunate other, corresponding to a
'Northern - centric spatial imaginary' of the affluent ethical consumer
practising care at a distance (Gregson and Ferdous, 2015: 253). The
iconic image of the polar bear offers a way for the good, 'green'
parent to make 'global' environmental concerns 'utterly everyday and
grounded' (Massey, 2004: 8). But even as it does this, their difference
and distance from the polar bear is underlined in the families' use
of humour. In Rosie and Helena's family narratives, environmental
concerns are largely personal, narrated as threats to the children's
present and future lives. Humour functions protectively to help them
manage the unbearable anxiety of environmental degradation for
the family (Weintrobe, 2012). But when environmental concern is
populated by more distant others, positioned as irresponsible, abstract
or abject, the 'other' is used by parents and other adult carers as a foil
to make children appreciate how lucky and comfortable their own
lives. Children are brought into contact with other environments
to produce positive affordances in their own. In these contexts,
humour acts to moderate concern, paradoxically distancing rather
than enabling a common world perspective. As with the discussion
of air conditioning use, narratives of (environmentally) responsible
privilege act as a form of family display (Finch, 2007) that helps to
justify practices of comfort and 'necessary' consumption (Shove et al,
2008). What does this mean for the positioning of children as targets
of environmental education, and as agents for environmental change?
The analyses presented here show that children are neither apathetic
nor ignorant about environmental concerns, but they also highlight
the sticky problem of children's constrained agency within the micro
and macro generational power structures of families and societies.
SIx
Negotiating environments in children's
and families' everyday lives
The answer ... put simply, is that everyday life is the wider
picture. None of these larger scale events could occur without
there being individual people doing little things in local places.
(Scott, 2009: 1)
Just how one goes about moving from the dualism of Humanity
and Nature to the dialectics of humanity - in - nature has been a
vexing, and largely unresolved, problem for Green Thought
and critical theory since the 1970s. (Moore, 2017: unpaginated)
Nudging, tweaking, or cajoling people into piecemeal
behavioural changes like re - using plastic bags is not a
proportionate response to climate change. Engaging the public
through their personal carbon footprints is really only a means
to an end - and that end is a political and economic system that
has sustainability as its central organising principle. (Corner,
13 December 2013, The Guardian)
In a period when, as Smith and Howe (2015) observe, 'the social
drama of climate change has come into being', it is not uncommon
for academics to point out that narratives of climate change are
unequal to the task of arresting it. Smith and Howe (2015: 53) suggest
that climate change is a 'somewhat disorganized drama, marked by
incoherence, disengagement, and proliferation'. The way forward
they argue is through a more coherent narrative of climate change to
make it a 'universal social drama that would compel decisive public
action and institutional reform'. From a different perspective, Moore
(2017) suggests that the conceptual problem is treating nature and
culture as binary opposites when they mutually constitute each other
in the 'web of life' within specific historical and geographical contexts.
Both these formulations are compelling. Yet, our engagement with
research on family lives and environments in India and the UK gives
fresh insights into why they do not meet the substantial societal
challenges posed by climate change. The reason for this is highlighted
by Räthzel et al (2014) in their study of transnational corporations
from the viewpoint of workers; having struggled to fit their research
findings into existing theoretical frames, they concluded that '[f]rom
the point of view of workers, all the dimensions that have segmented
into different scholarly traditions and interests have a bearing on their
lives simultaneously' (Räthzel et al, 2014: 277). Our book has shown
why a holistic perspective is central to addressing climate change.
Working with a common world approach, we have built on a
'humanity - in - nature' conceptualisation as advocated by Moore (2017)
in the epigraph above and set diverse experiences in conversation. Our
aim has been to move beyond social drama to examine the complex
ways in which environmental affordances, socioeconomic resources and
opportunities shape understandings and practices. Through in - depth
qualitative research with 24 families who live in differing contexts
in India and the UK, we have shown that environmental practices
are inextricably relational, and linked with dynamic family practices,
childhood and parenthood. Holistic understandings of environmental
practices, and of children and families, benefit from juxtaposing
Minority and Majority world understandings and so challenging
patronising (colonial) moral discourses of environmental concern that
are rooted in Minority world understandings of the affluent ethical
consumer practising care at a distance. This approach helps to build
the new global perspective based on dialogue between childhoods in
Majority and Minority worlds that Punch and Tisdall (2012) advocate,
and so to understand 'other' lives, in context.
The research illuminates the dangers for policy makers and
environmental organisations of imagining 'family' as a homogeneous
entity. No one family in our study is in any way representative or typical
of family lives in India or the UK. Rather, they are emblematic of
a variety of experiences, living in diverse family formations, and
socioeconomic and geographic contexts. As we have shown, family
practices are negotiated in the context of environmental affordances,
including risks, material opportunities, socioeconomic and temporal
resources, and priorities of care. Family members may not share
understandings of the importance or meanings of practices, and the
generational power positioning of children means that even in families
that foreground identities of environmental concern, children may be
knowledgeable and agentic, but have limited scope to influence family
practices. Families who are sceptical about, or seem to be unaware
of, the anthropogenic causes of climate change, and those who are
sceptical about the capacity of individual action to mitigate the effects
of climate change, may both engage in what are generally considered
environmentally protective practices such as recycling. One benefit of a
focus on everyday family lives is its illumination of the differing reasons
for similar practices. The reasons that families recycled included that it
was: a 'way of life'; the product of the intersection of socioeconomic
constraints and environmental affordances, facilitated by structural
factors (such as, in the UK, local recycling systems and sometimes fines
for not recycling); driven by values for the upbringing of children; or
driven by aesthetic environmental concerns. Across both countries,
use (or not) of private cars was for a similar mix of reasons. Notions of
'way of life', socioeconomic resources and interventions by municipal
authorities all affected the environmental affordances of car driving
and relations of care for family members. In India, air conditioning use
was, of course, linked to the material resources available to families,
but also with what Hall (2016: 1017) calls the 'moral geographies of
family' where the 'caringscapes' constituted through the ethics of care
and responsibility come together in the 'doing' of intergenerational
family relations. Providing care and comfort for family members
and the self is frequently bracketed off from environmental concerns
(Jamieson, 2016).
In other contexts, families' precarious living conditions make
abstract environmental messages seem irrelevant, even as they view
and deal with environmental affordances, and with minimal carbon
resources, in their daily lives. This may be partly, as Lertzman (2015)
suggests, that it may not be possible to direct protest and anger to
more powerful people (as for example when the local state cleared
slum dwellings, leaving families more exposed to flooding in India).
As a result, ambivalence, melancholia and denial are understandable
responses (Norgaard, 2011; Adams, 2016).
Every little helps? Beyond 'ABC' (Attitudes - Behaviour - Cognition)
The attention to everyday lives implied by the epigraph from Scott
(2009) above, could erroneously be interpreted as a call to climate
change response through individual action - the idea that 'every little
helps'. This is the moral case that dominates popular media and policy
discourses in both India and the UK (and in many other countries,
too). The neoliberal world has a strong preference 'for voluntary,
private and market - based responses to environmental challenges', and
individualising moral narratives of environmentalism can be seen as
compatible with the requirements of capitalism and business - as - usual
economics (Newell, 2012: 157). The 'affluence hypothesis', framed
in relation to the economic model of the 'Kuznets Curve' - which
postulates that environmental awareness is correlated with economic
development - provides an example of this (Duroy, 2008). This
hypothesis would imply that the carbon impact of economic growth
should eventually be mitigated, presumably through the adoption of
a Minority world narrative of environmental concern.
The epigraph from the Guardian newspaper that opened this
chapter reports on a two - day conference in 2013 at the Royal
Society in London, which, it states, 'made clear, "every little helps"
is a dangerously misleading mantra when it comes to climate change'.
The analysis presented in this book lends weight to that argument in
several respects. First, detailed attention to the dynamic relationality
of everyday lives shows why individualising 'ABC' approaches are
unlikely to be effective. When we recognise the relationality of family
practices, we see how potential environmental actions that demand
sacrifices may not be taken up because they are understood to risk
other aspects of child, parent or family life. For families whose resources
permit, air conditioning is understood as necessary to protect the
health of older grandparents, or to ensure children's ability to sleep in
45°C heat; technological devices such as computers are necessary for
work, school and social relationships; and cars are seen as essential to
access places of work and education, because they protect scarce family
time, and shield children and parents from risks - such as pollution
and traffic danger - that cars in turn create. To frame such decisions
as self - interested or apathetic is to ignore the relational commitments
that underpin everyday practices, as Morgan (2011: unpaginated)
explains: 'In carrying out these everyday practicalities, social actors
are reproducing the sets of relationships (structures, collectivities)
within which these activities are carried out and from which they
derive their meaning.'
Within Shove and colleagues' (2012) conceptualisation of practice
as comprising meanings, materials and skills, we need to acknowledge
that meanings are inherently relational and quotidian. Attention to
'family' reminds us that we are not individual practitioners, and so
demands recognition of relationality, and the real and imagined 'others'
who populate our everyday lives. The research shows how and why
families who present environmentally engaged identities maintain high
carbon practices that they see as necessary for family life and wellbeing.
Taking the example of a family in India discussing air conditioning, is it
surprising that the mother prioritises her temporally and geographically
proximal concerns for her children's wellbeing and comfort over
the more remote polar bear that has assumed mythic status? Her
negotiation of the morality of this choice within an environmentally
engaged family display is mitigated by jokingly distancing the polar
bear - she reminds her children: "where do you see him?". Those she
lives with, and loves, are prioritised over the more distant other(s) she
and her children can only imagine.
"It's like I was a witch": the unhelpfulness of moral binaries
Families' accounts echoed dominant canonical narratives - in media
and political discourse - of the heroes and villains of climate change.
We saw how they navigate the 'social drama' of climate change in
contexts where hegemonic narratives of environmental concern
reflect on the moral character of those making claims and define
performative actions as worthy or unworthy (Smith and Howe, 2015).
Efforts to negotiate moral discourses of environmental concern were
vivid across the two countries in our study, evident in the guilt - laden
characterisations of self and other in parents' and children's narratives
about practices that did not fit 'pro - environmental' norms, and in their
scepticism that their individual actions could make a difference. Even
when participants expressed personal feelings of guilt - for example,
about using the 'wrong' bin - the practices they appeared to vilify
persisted. At the same time, understandings of necessary consumption
can be enabled through an identity position of moderate, responsible
privilege that avoids the troubled subject position (Wetherell, 1998)
of potentially being disparaged for being a humourless, 'hair shirt'
environmentalist, even as it enables moral superiority in comparison
to an other, constructed as unconcerned or ignorant.
A holistic perspective on environmental practices necessarily entails
considering embodied and emotional as well as social issues (the
psychosocial). Ahmed's (2008) concept of 'sticky affect' is relevant here.
High carbon practices may be framed as morally problematic within
an identity position of environmental responsibility, but they are also
justifiable. Narrative characterisations of environmental concern may
disparage environmentally ignorant or apathetic others, even while
high carbon practices are judged to be essential for family life, comfort
and convenience. This narrative practice helps people to negotiate
an uncomfortable subject position, making themselves feel better by
characterising 'uncivilised others' as the real cause of the problem. It
shows how '"feeling good" becomes attached to other kinds of social
good', in ways that allow structural inequalities, including inequalities
in resource use, and historical injustice to disappear (Ahmed, 2008:
124).
Narrative characterisations of responsible privilege and the
irresponsible other fit with Guha's (2006) critique of a Minority world
imaginary of environmental awareness as a 'full stomach' phenomenon.
They highlight another problem with moralising conceptions of
environmental practice and environmental concern: individualising
approaches to climate change response that derive from affluent and
Minority worlds are inherently depoliticising, relying on an 'overall
model of elite consensus' (Swyngedouw, 2013: 6) that neglects
structural and socioeconomic inequalities. Through a common world
approach, we have juxtaposed the narratives of families for whom
everyday life is deeply patterned by their quotidian environments
with those for whom having the socioeconomic resources to control
their immediate environments is mundane. For families that fit with
Guha's (2006) conceptualisation of 'ecosystem people' and 'ecological
refugees', environment is an inescapable character in stories of their
everyday lives; environmental practices are not a matter of 'choice' but
are rooted in the materiality of quotidian practices and differentiated by
social class, caste, affluence, gender and location (Agarwal, 1998). For
example, four of the families in the study (Chitra, Hemant, Dharani
and Chandrasekhar's) lived within 20 kilometres of each other but
 - as is commonly the case for 'lower' caste groups such as Padmasali
(Prakash and Singh, 2012) - Chandrasekhar's family lived in a less
environmentally secure area at a lower altitude, and so were exposed to
greater risk of flooding and less reliable water supplies than the other
families. Socioeconomic positioning and the land itself - topography
and climatic conditions - intersect to create risks for families.
Even when (as in the UK) family lives benefit from infrastructural
resources such as public transport and waste collection, not all families
(and not all family members) are equally shielded from environmental
hazards. Environmental affordances - both good and bad - depend
on the ways in which socioeconomic resources intersect with
the particularities of geographic location, and with gendered and
generational responsibilities and practices of care. The juxtaposition of
cases between India and the UK serves as a stark reminder that poverty
and environmental risk are not equivalent in the two countries. At the
same time we have shown commonalities in the ways in which relative
poverty restricts control over environmental affordances, and so of the
meanings of environmental concern in everyday family lives. Families'
differential positioning in relation to the benefits and hazards of cars is a
clear example of the localised inequities of environmental vulnerability,
which link to wider socioeconomic processes shaping the demand and
availability of vehicles and, for some, normative understandings of the
necessities of everyday life (for example, Shove et al, 2012).
Futurity, families and children
Ahmed's (2008) concept of 'sticky affect' is also helpful in thinking
through the affective complexity of children's positioning in debates
about climate change response. The hopes and fears of adults' imagined
futures for younger generations coincide with conceptualisations of
children as vulnerable, innocent and in need of protection - but also
as ignorant, irresponsible and in need of education. Children's own
perspectives, and their agency within family and wider social and
political structures, are situated in the context of this sticky affective
mix. In our study, a few families displayed what Lertzman (2015) and
Adams (2016) describe as 'unbearable anxiety' about climate change in
the future. In that context, parents sometimes showed a desire to protect
children. For families such as these, the research showed the ways in
which parents and children manage the potential distress of bringing
environmental concerns into everyday family life through strategies
such as humour. Concern is simultaneously displayed, neutralised
and disconnected from solution finding (Uzzell, 1999). This could be
seen as parental overprotection, contributing to children's structural
vulnerability and thinning their agency as environmental actors within
the family (Klocker, 2007). We did not find that children were less
knowledgeable or concerned than parents about environmental issues,
although they were often positioned as such. But children's constrained
agency within family hierarchies was certainly evident across diverse
family contexts. Some parents were clear that they knew more about
the environment than their children did. Others either did not find the
school knowledge children brought home relevant, or felt themselves
to be powerless to change their environments. In a similar way, Hall
(2016) found that some parents resented teachers whose (non - shared)
moral values intruded into their homes. In this context it is important
to note that family members could disagree with each other on
environmental practices. Parents sometimes disagreed about recycling
and some children tried unsuccessfully to get their parents to take action
against climate change. Those children with the socioeconomic means
to have electronic gadgets frequently disagreed with their parents about
how much to use them and considered them complementary to the
'natural' environment when their parents did not.
There were, however, cases where parents did take very seriously
their children's environmental concerns or the knowledge they brought
home. One case, where a father encouraged his son to send an email
to the local authority, stands out as an example of developing political
agency through dialogue. This is not environmental action as an
ethical consumer; it is political action, driven by concern for the local
environment and an awareness that the quality of this environment
and the quality of one's own life within it are inextricably linked. His
experience raises a critical question for policy and professional actors.
When we educate children about climate change, and climate change
response, what are we aiming to do? Are we hoping that 'every little
helps', or do we seek a more fundamental systems change? Carlsson
and Jensen (2006) distinguish between approaches to environmental
education that are based on the individual or school as consumer, and
approaches based on developing political agency. They highlight the
need to work more explicitly with barriers and resistance to genuine
dialogue between children and adults, which relies on better insight
into power relations. They say: 'This means involving the students in
a way that promotes their action competence - not only promoting
predefined solutions to environmental problems' (Carlsson and Jensen,
2006: 255).
Adults (most notably parents and teachers) play a role in promoting
what these authors term children's 'action competence'. Lansdown
(2010: 13) observes that popular understandings of children's
participation often eclipse the ways in which '[children's and young
people's] opportunity to participate is usually dependent on the
goodwill of adults involved in the child's life'. In contextualising
children's participation, there is a need for greater attention to
intergenerational dialogue and intergenerational learning (Mannion,
2007).
Implications for policy and practice
In documenting the dynamic, spatial and temporal complexity of a
common world environment across diverse family lives, what does the
research described here offer those who seek to develop environmental
and educational policy initiatives to mitigate and raise awareness of
climate change? Put simply, so what?
First, the study adds to a growing literature that builds a holistic
understanding of why existing approaches to climate change response
may be ineffective, and ethically problematic in exporting ideas from
affluent Minority world contexts to less privileged lives in Majority
and Minority worlds. Wilson and Chatterton (2011) argue that policy
makers pick and mix from menus of conceptually contradictory
approaches, tools and measures in attempts to see 'what works'. The
research that informs this book shows why 'every little helps' narratives
that rely on piecemeal individual behaviour change are unlikely to
result in significant changes to carbon - intensive family practices. To
paraphrase Scott (2009), in the epigraph that opened this chapter,
the little things that people do in their local places may contribute
to climate change, but they are experienced as necessary practices of
care in everyday family lives.
Second, the research shows how abstract environmental messages
may be unhelpful because they can serve to distance environmental
threats, marginalising them and making them appear purely symbolic.
Just as Ingold (2000: 211) writes that the image of 'spaceship earth'
may in fact contribute to a sense of alienation from 'nature', when
environmental concern is focused on geographically and temporally
distant objects, it is possible for more affluent people to distance, and
alienate, human others who are disproportionately affected by climatic
shocks. In this way, environmentalism becomes an abstract moral, rather
than everyday, issue in family lives. The study shows that families and
their differently positioned members view environmental concerns as
multi - layered and local as well as about 'big' environments.
Third, as argued in the epigraph from Corner's Guardian newspaper
article (2013), some families and family members considered that
environmental change was the responsibility of (transnational)
corporations that were damaging their environments with the collusion
of government in both India and the UK. This, together with the
fact that some national and local state policies facilitated (while others
hindered) environmental practices makes it important for policy makers
not simply to individualise environmental messages. Shove (2012:
421) presents an example of how state policies can work positively in
pro - environmental directions:
In 2005 the Japanese government took a step in this direction.
The idea was simple: government buildings would not be heated
or cooled between 20 and 28°C, and male office workers would
be encouraged to remove jackets and ties in the summer and wear
more in the winter (called 'Warm Biz'). The effect was to change
the meaning of normal clothing, along with the technologies
(levels of air - conditioning) and competences (of dress and of
facilities management) involved in the routine enactment and
effective accomplishment of office life. ... This strategy appears
to have transformed collective conventions rapidly and on a
significant scale. The Cool Biz programme worked on a number
of fronts at once. Established marketing techniques were used
to transform the meaning of smart and appropriate wear. The
then prime minister, Mr Junichiro Koizumi, and members of
the Cabinet were shown wearing loose - fitting short - sleeved
outfits in formal settings. Successful business leaders were
involved, the clothing industry responded to the challenge and
large department stores promoted especially designed garments
under the Cool Biz name.
For some of the families in the study reported in this book, family
practices and environmental concerns - such as (not) using public
transport or recycling - were interlinked because of the intervention
of the state. This relates to a fourth point: while children tend to
suffer disproportionately deleterious effects from climate change
(Agarwal, 1998; Jamieson, 2016), they are positioned as less powerful
in generational structures. They, therefore, cannot generally make
changes to household practices unless their parents want to make
those changes.
In highlighting relationality and practices of care, the book evidences
the need for approaches to environmental policy and education that
take account of the intersectionality of socioeconomic resources,
environmental affordances, and gendered and generational concerns.
We see in particular how environmental concerns compete with other
priorities for mothers' gendered work, especially (but not only) in
time - and resource - poor families where caring concerns overwhelm
a more abstract concern for 'the environment'.
Generational perspectives also show why environmental concerns
might be distanced because the likely impact of climate change
gives rise to unbearable anxiety in parents' imagined futures for their
families (Weintrobe, 2012). Where resources and environmental
affordances permit, parents do what they can to protect 'childhood
innocence', often drawing on a Minority world imaginary of the
'good childhood' (Balagopalan, 2014). Without those affordances,
environmental precarity poses a direct threat to families' present and
future survival, and protecting 'childhood innocence' is scarcely an
option as children are recruited into household survival practices. These
generational intersections highlight the importance of recognising
children's potential agency within family lives, as well as the ways
in which agency may be 'thinned' or constrained. The Young Lives
study highlights children's active responses to their family's constrained
economic circumstances; as Boyden and Crivello (2012: 176) note,
'there is an expectation that children will share, rather than be shielded
from, the burden of family difficulties'. Our research shows children's
competency and engagement with environmental concerns, not
least in supporting family practices in everyday life, in working for
the family, and in protecting and defending their local environment,
particularly when environmental change or precarity means that
family wellbeing or survival cannot be taken for granted. The future
consequences of climate change engender an ethical imperative to
ensure political agency for children across socioeconomic groups in
Majority and Minority world countries, as well as for their parents.
This requires moving the policy agenda away from moralising notions
that many people (and especially children) are apathetic or ignorant
about environmental issues in their everyday lives. It also requires that
children's viewpoints be sought and discussions facilitated between
children, teachers, parents and local state officials.
A common world perspective on environmental affordances
illuminates that policy makers and non - governmental organisations
(NGOs) have to think about climate change policies in complex,
multi - level ways. Families do not respond well to being responsibilised
for ameliorating climate change while more intractable carbon
producers are not made the targets of environmental strictures.
Instead, effective policies have to be crafted from recognition that
environmental practices are relational and about care. Thus, for
example, policy initiatives getting families to use less air conditioning
or reduce central heating would require creative policies that support
familial maintenance of comfortable, but more pro - environmental
temperatures, as in the Japanese case described above (Shove, 2012).
Equally, some families are in such precarious situations that they cannot
attend to messages asking them to change environmental practices
that do not directly contribute to improving their lives. Ethically,
such families require more consumption of the earth's resources and
need global action to help them to do so in sustainable ways. Early
findings from an ongoing UK study of families living with fuel poverty
highlights the familial as well as the environmental benefits of installing
solar panels (Fox, 2015). For families in relatively affluent and relatively
constrained circumstances, rather than a policy focus on children as
'agents of change', a more helpful and ultimately more sustainable
approach might be to focus on the ways that family members work
together to enact changes in their everyday lives, amidst ongoing
conflicts and negotiations.
Overall, the climate change narrative told by governments and
NGOs needs to be modified to be inclusive of all families. Bulkely and
colleagues (2014) argue for a conceptualisation of environmental justice
that encompasses recognition of the 'other', because framing justice
predominantly in terms of responsibilities focuses attention on the
middle classes in ways that neglect structural inequalities, and the very
limited contribution to greenhouse gas emissions from low - income
households. In the face of an unbearably precarious environmental
future, we need a holistic and relational approach to climate change
policy, which does more than simply teach (parents or children)
behavioural solutions in ways that continue to be unsuccessful because
they maintain the current generational and economic status quo.
