Can previously sedentary females use the feeling scale to regulate exercise intensity in a gym environment? an observational study



Background: Recent research suggests that the Feeling Scale (FS) can be used as a method of exercise intensity
regulation to maintain a positive affective response during exercise. However, research to date has been carried out
in laboratories and is not representative of natural exercise environments. The purpose of this study was to evaluate
whether sedentary women can self - regulate their exercise intensity using the FS to experience positive affective
responses in a gym environment using their own choice of exercise mode; cycling or treadmill.

Methods: Fourteen females (24.9 years ± 5.2; height 166.7 ± 5.7 cm; mass 66.3 ± 13.4 kg; BMI 24.1 ± 5.5)) completed
a submaximal exercise test and each individual's ventilatory threshold ( _VT ) was identified. Following this, three
20 min gym - based exercise trials, either on a bike or treadmill were performed at an intensity that was self - selected
and perceived to correspond to the FS value of +3 (good). Oxygen uptake, heart rate (HR) and ratings of perceived
exertion (RPE) were measured during exercise at the participants chosen intensity.

Results: Results indicated that on average participants worked close to their _VT and increased their exercise intensity
during the 20 - min session. Participants worked physiologically harder during cycling exercise. Consistency of oxygen
uptake, HR and RPE across the exercise trials was high.

Conclusion: The data indicate that previously sedentary women can use the FS in an ecological setting to regulate
their exercise intensity and that regulating intensity to feel 'good' should lead to individuals exercising at an intensity
that would result in cardiovascular gains if maintained.

Keywords: Affect, Physical activity, Exercise prescription, Ventilatory threshold, Ideographic responses

Background
Research indicates that positive affective responses experienced during exercise may enhance future exercise behaviour [1, 2]. However, identifying an optimal exercise
intensity that elicits a positive affective response in all individuals is challenging. One method to overcome this problem is to allow individuals to self - regulate their exercise to
an intensity that they prefer [3 - 5]. Research using this

method has shown that, on average, individuals choose to
exercise at intensities around their ventilatory threshold ( _V
T ; the transition from aerobic to anaerobic metabolism)
[6] or lactate threshold (LT), and that while intensity remains within this range, evidence has shown that typically,
participants start below these metabolic landmarks and
then choose to increase their workrate/intensity. The reasons suggested for this include that it is the result of a natural warm - up strategy [7], or that it takes time to locate an
intensity that is 'preferred' [3], or that over time participants adjust to the metabolic requirements and as they become comfortable choose to increase the intensity [5].
However, the corresponding affective responses have
remained stable [3, 4, 7]. Further, this method of allowing



participants to self - regulate their intensity has resulted in
reduced inter - individual variability in affective responses,
making self - regulation of exercise based on preference a
more appropriate method of exercise prescription for eliciting positive affective responses than the traditional 'relative' intensity protocols. Rose and Parfitt [8] suggested that
one approach that would remove this variability altogether
would be to allow the individual to self - regulate their exercise intensity to result in a specific positive affective response (affect - regulate). To date, three studies have sought
to explore the feasibility of using affective anchors to guide
the self - regulation of exercise using the Feeling Scale (FS)
[8 - 10]. Rose and Parfitt [8] asked seventeen women to
complete eight 30 - min exercise sessions at an intensity
they perceived to correspond to FS + 1 (fairly good) and
FS + 3 (good). On average participants worked 2 - 4 %
above _VT in the first exercise session and between 6 - 10 %
above _VT in the three subsequent sessions. Irrespective of
condition (FS + 1 or FS + 3) individuals chose to increase
their exercise intensity across the 30 min. This pattern was
reflected in the heart rate (HR) and rating of perceived exertion (RPE) and the selected intensity was consistent both
within and across trials. A limitation of this study, however,
was that _VT was inferred from a prior graded exercise test
(GXT) during which oxygen uptake and HR were
recorded.
Parfitt et al. [9] sought to overcome these limitations

and objectively measured the physiological cost of the
exercise intensity associated with FS + 1 (fairly good) and
FS + 3 (good) in active females. When referenced relative
to _VT the exercise intensity chosen by individuals was
close to _VT , and as with the previous study, increased
over the 20 - min exercise period to maintain the target
affective response. Whilst there are differences between
these two studies, results indicate that participants are
exercising at an intensity that should improve fitness
and health benefits if maintained. This has now been
confirmed in a study that required sedentary women to
affect - regulate their exercise intensity during supervised
training twice a week for 8 weeks [10].
The primary aim of this study was to examine if

affect - regulated exercise could be utilised by previously
sedentary individuals in a natural environment: a fitness
gym. Additionally, the study aimed to overcome previous
study limitations. This study allowed participants to
choose their exercise mode, as choice, or rather the lack
of choice, has been shown to impact affective responses
[11 - 14]. Additionally, in line with Buscombe and Inskip,
participants were permitted to alter the intensity at any
stage during the course of the workout [14]. Finally,
based upon Parfitt et al. [9] participants completed three
exercise trials at the same target affective response (FS +
3 good) to examine consistency across the three

sessions. It was hypothesised that 1) individuals would
self - select an intensity of exercise on their chosen mode
that lay within the range recommended by the ACSM
for health improvements [8, 15, 16]; 2) exercise intensity
would increase across the exercise sessions [3, 5, 8, 9];
and 3) participants would be able to self - regulate with
high consistency across sessions. [8, 9]

Methods
Participants
Fourteen female volunteers (mean ± SD; age 24.9 ±
5.2 years; height 166.7 ± 5.7 cm; mass 66.3 ± 13.4 kg; BMI
24.1 ± 5.5) participated in the study. Participants were recruited through poster advertisement on a University
campus and convenience sampling. To be eligible,
participants had to be female and sedentary (no participation in exercise more than once a week for the
previous six months). All participants read and signed
informed consent forms approved by the University
Ethics Committee prior to participation. Participants
completed a Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire
(PAR - Q) and were healthy, non - smokers, and free
from muscular - skeletal injury.

Measurement instruments
Affective valence (pleasure/displeasure) was assessed
using the FS [17]. Participants were asked to exercise so
that they felt 'good' on the 11 - point bipolar scale, which
ranges from +5 - 5, with verbal anchors of very good
(+5), good (+3), fairly good (+1), neutral (0), fairly bad
( - 1), bad ( - 3), and very bad ( - 5). Participants were given
standardised instructions on how to use the scale and
had time to practice during the familiarisation stage and
the submaximal exercise test. The FS has previously
been shown to be a valid measure of affect [18, 19].
The Borg 6 - 20 RPE scale [20] was used to assess

whole - body exertion. Participants stated the number
that reflected how hard the exercise felt on a 6 - 20 scale,
ranging from no exertion at all (6) through somewhat
hard (13) to maximal exertion (20). Participants were
given standardised instructions on how to use the scale
and had time to practice during the familiarisation stage.
A portable gas analyser (Cosmed K4, Rome, Italy)

complete with a face mask was used to measure expired
gases throughout the duration of the testing. The K4 has
been shown to provide valid measurements of oxygen
uptake across a range of exercise intensities [21]. The K4
was calibrated before every test in accordance with manufacturer's guidelines.
A Polar HR monitor (Polar Electro, Finland) was used

to measure HR throughout the exercise sessions. Heart
rate was recorded continuously using a wireless chest
strap telemetry system with a watch worn on the right



wrist. Heart rate was blinded from the participant during
the exercise sessions.

Procedures
Height and mass measures were taken upon arrival at the
laboratory. Participants were briefed on procedures and
any outstanding questions were addressed. Maximal HR
(HRmax) was calculated using Tanaka's equation (208 - 0.7
* age) [22]. Participants were given the choice of using
either the treadmill (Integrity Series, Life Fitness, UK) or
cycle ergometer (Lifecycle 9100, Life Fitness, UK) and
were offered a brief trial on each piece of equipment before making a decision. Participants were given standardised instructions on how to use the scales in the
forthcoming submaximal exercise test. A period of familiarisation and practice with the scales was provided during
the warm - up period.

Submaximal exercise test
All participants performed a submaximal exercise test
on their chosen mode of exercise. A submaximal exercise test (up to 85 % HRmax) was deemed most appropriate given that all participants were sedentary and may
have been unfamiliar with the feelings and sensations associated with maximal exercise. Additionally, the cessation of the exercise test at 85 % of HRmax would reduce
the potential negative affect associated with the higher
exercise intensities [23 - 25] which may impact participant recruitment. Participants FS responses and RPE
were recorded every minute during exercise.

Cycling exercise
Participants completed a three - minute warm - up (15 W)
followed by a step protocol starting at 25 W and increasing by 10 W - 1 (pedal cadence was maintained at 50
RPM). The end point of the exercise test was marked by
the participant reaching 85 % of their age - related predicted HRmax.

Treadmill exercise
Participants completed a three - minute warm up, walking
or running at a comfortable pace, followed by the BalkeWare treadmill (step) protocol. A speed of 5.4 km/h was
maintained and a starting gradient of 2.0 % was increased by 1 % every minute. The termination criteria
were the same as for the cycling exercise.

Determination of maximal oxygen uptake ( _V02 max) and
Ventilatory Threshold ( _VT)
Using data recorded at one minute intervals throughout the submaximal exercise test, maximal oxygen uptake ( _V 02 max ) was determined by plotting HR against
oxygen uptake ( _VO2 ml

.min - 1.kg - 1). Linear regression

analysis was then used to extrapolate to each individual's
HRmax. The _VT was determined using visual determination and agreement between the three - method (ventilatory equivalent; excess carbon dioxide; and modified V
slope) procedure proposed by Gaskill et al. [26].

Gym - based exercise sessions
Participants completed three 20 - min exercise sessions in
a fitness gym. Guidelines indicate 10 - min of continuous
aerobic should be performed for health gains [27], with
a total of 30 - min a day recommended. However, as the
participants in the current study were sedentary 20 - min
sessions were chosen so as not to deter the participants
from adhering to the study. The ACSM recommend
that, dependent on the individuals' fitness, exercise sessions should be of moderate duration, progressing up to
30 - min as adaptation to training occurs [16]. Each session was held at least 48 h apart, and at the same time
of day when possible. The mode of exercise in the gym
sessions corresponded to that of the submaximal exercise test. Participants were instructed to aim to work at
an intensity which reflected FS + 3 (good). The portable
gas analyser was fitted to the participant to continuously
measure metabolic data and a HR monitor. Participants
completed a three - minute warm - up, to prepare for exercise and to enable them to find an initial intensity which
reflected FS + 3. During the test participants were able
to adjust the exercise intensity (altering the gradient or
speed on the treadmill, or resistance on the exercise
bike) at any stage, although the display and values themselves were kept blind. At five - minute intervals, HR was
recorded and participants were asked to confirm that
they were exercising at FS + 3 and indicate their RPE
using visual scales placed in front of them.
Upon completion of all exercise sessions open - ended

qualitative questions were asked to explore participant's
experiences of participating in the study and using the
Feeling Scale to regulate their exercise intensity.

Data analysis

The _V 02 and HR data were converted to a proportion of
the value recorded at _VT . The representation of data
relative to each individual's _VT is abbreviated as VO2
expressed as a percentage of VO2 at VT ( _V 02 as % _V
02VT ) and HR as a % of that achieved at VT (%HR at _V
T ). Using SPSS 15.0 for windows (SPSS Inc., Chicago,
IL), a series of three factor, trial (1, 2, 3) by mode (cycling, treadmill exercise) by time (5 - 10 - , 15 - 20 - min)
analyses of variance (ANOVA) with repeated measures
(trial and time) were conducted for _V 02 as % _V O2VT
and %HR at _VT and RPE. Greenhouse Geisser corrections were applied if the assumption of sphericity was not
met. All significant main and interaction effects (p < .05)



were followed by Bonferroni adjusted pairwise comparisons. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) were calculated for _V 02 as % _V 02VT and %HR at _VT and RPE to
examine the consistency in the intensity chosen across
trials at each time point (5 - , 10 - , 15 - and 20 - min).

Results
Following the GXT, to ensure there were no differences
in physiological profiles ( _V 02 as % _V 02VT and %HR at
_VT , _V 02% _V 02 max, and predicted _V 02 max) between
participants in cycling and treadmill exercise groups,
independent t - tests were conducted. No differences in
_V 02 as % _V 02VT , %HR at _VT , _V 02% _V 02 max or predicted _V 02 max were recorded.

Oxygen uptake
A significant main effect of mode (F(1,12) = 5.28, p < .05)
was recorded for _V 02 as % _V 02VT . _V 02 as % _V 02VT was
higher during cycling (120.2 ± 23.1; above _VT ) than
treadmill exercise (89.1 ± 27.3; below _VT ), but remained
stable across all time points; 5 - , 10 - , 15 - and 20 - min
(p > .05; see Table 1).

Heart rate
A significant main effect of time (F (2,21) =18.6 p < .001)
was recorded for %HR at _VT . Percentage HR at _VT significantly increased from 5 - 10 min, but remained stable
at 10 - 15 - and 20 - min (see Table 1).

Rating of perceived exertion
A significant main effect of time (F (3,36) = 23.0, p < .001)
was recorded for RPE. Perceived exertion significantly increased from 5 - 10 - to 15 - min, but then remained stable
until 20 - min (see Table 1).
Consistency across and within trials for _V 02 as %

_V 02VT and %HR at VT was high during both cycling
(range .89 - 95 and .81 - 92, respectively) and treadmill

exercise (range .87 - 93 and .91 - 99, respectively; see
Table 2. Consistency across and within trials for RPE was
not quite as high (although still relatively good) during
cycling (range .58 - 84 and .73 - 98, respectively) and treadmill exercise (range .76 - 95 and .69 - 98, respectively).

Discussion
The purpose of this study was to provide preliminary
evidence for the practical use of the FS to regulate exercise intensity in a natural gym environment, as previous
research has been restricted to a laboratory setting. Sedentary females were generally able to self - regulate their
exercise intensity using the FS during 20 - min cycling or
treadmill exercise in a gym environment, although data
suggest that there is a mode effect and that there may be
a need to balance physiological and psychological
considerations.
In support of the first hypothesis, individuals selfselected an exercise intensity using their chosen mode
that lay within the range recommended by the ACSM
for health improvements. The exercise intensity equated
to 72 % predicted HRmax (cycling 75 % and treadmill
exercise 69 % predicted HRmax) that lies within the
ACSM [28] recommended range, which extends from a
low of 64 - 70 % to a high of 90 % HRmax. Heart rate
data from the current study were similar to previous laboratory investigations with self - regulated exercise based
on affective feelings [8, 9]. Rose and Parfitt [8] found
that sedentary women selected an intensity equating to
70 % HRmax at FS + 3; only slightly lower than that of
the current study.
The _V 02 data paint a slightly different picture with an

average exercise intensity of 58 % _VO2 max (cycling
66 % and treadmill exercise 50 % _V 02 max ). Whilst
within the ACSMs [28] recommended range of between
50 - 85 %, the wide inter - individual differences, which
ranged between 42 - 79 % of _V 02 max suggest that some
participants (primarily during treadmill exercise) were



not quite working at the recommended level of intensity
necessary for the accrual of health benefits. However, _V 02
max was only predicted for the participants in this study
and therefore may not be as accurate as within previous
studies. Thus, instead of focusing on % _V 02max, potentially
of more relevance to this study and future research is the
% above or below _VT that the individual is working. Research has indicated that when exercise prescription is
based on the individually determined _VT , exercise is
more effective in improving indices of fitness or health
compared to traditional prescriptions [29, 30]. Results
from this study revealed that only the participants cycling
worked consistently above their _VT ; an intensity shown
to have a beneficial effect on health. Individual data show
that all the participants who cycled achieved their _VT for
at least 5 min (the majority for 15 min) during the session.
This was not the case for the participants who chose to
exercise on the treadmill, with only 3 of the 7 exercising
above or close to their _VT . These findings are contrary to
the previous treadmill - based research [8, 9] and suggest
that exercise mode influences the intensity of exercise selected by sedentary females in a gym environment. The
explanation for this is not clear, although it may be that in
the gym environment the females felt more self - conscious;
particularly as participants reported that running
wearing the K4 breath analyser was cumbersome and
made it difficult to run properly. The K4 breath analyser is a 'one - size fits all' model, meaning that the
same harness was worn by all participants despite differences in size and body shape. As a consequence,
the analyser was more secure on some participants
than others; something that became more pronounced
when running compared to walking. These points
were reflected in the post - study qualitative data:

'When I started running the machine on my front was
really annoying. It kept getting in my way.'

'People were staring at me.'

This was not an issue on the bike as one's torso remains relatively still during cycle. Alternatively it may be
linked to individual differences in one's preference and
tolerance of high and low intensity exercise; a concept
discussed by Ekkekakis et al. [31] who say that individuals differ in the intensity of exercise they prefer and the
intensity they can tolerate. This could have a direct influence on the intensity an individual chooses when trying to maintain a state of feeling 'good'. Future studies
should seek to examine this concept further to identify if
individual differences in tolerance and preference account for the intensities selected, as previous research
has shown that preference can predict the intensity an
individual will self - select [32 - 34].
The average RPE selected was 11.8 (cycling 12.2 and

treadmill exercise 11.4), almost identical to that found
by Rose and Parfitt [8] who reported an average of 11.4.
These RPE scores are slightly lower than those recommended for the regulation of moderate intensity exercise
(12 - 14) [27], however, in self - regulated exercise it is not
uncommon for RPE ratings to become uncoupled from
physiological variables [15, 35 - 37]. Previous research has
shown perceptions of intensity are lower during selfregulated exercise compared to prescribed intensity exercise even when the actual intensity does not differ [38].
Numerous studies that have investigated affectregulated exercise have reported that individuals spontaneously increase their intensity across time [3, 5, 7, 8].
However, in this study, the data are inconsistent and
dependent on which physiological variable is considered.
The _V 02 remained stable with no time main effect recorded, but there was a significant increase for HR from
5 - 10 min and for RPE in the first 15 min. The lack of a
time main effect for _V 02 could have been due to the large
variability in response in this variable, while the significant
time main effects (for HR and RPE) would be explained as
participants taking time to find the intensity to match feeling 'good' [32]. Qualitative data collected upon completion
of all exercise sessions supported this explanation.

"[I] gradually increased [the intensity] in order to
reach an intensity that felt 'good'. This ensured that
I progressed slowly to a comfortable pace."

Finally, hypothesis three investigated the consistency of
self - regulation across exercise sessions. Rose and Parfitt
[8] argue that for the FS to be considered a reliable
method of exercise regulation it is important to show high
consistency across trials with regards to the relationship
between certain intensities and particular affective states.
Results from Rose and Parfitt [8] revealed that after one
familiarisation session there was high consistency across
exercise trials. Data from the current study suggests that


individuals can regulate with high consistency from the
first session as ICCs across trials and within trial, at each
time point, were high.
As this study moved away from a laboratory setting

into a gym environment it is important to note that the
social context may have influenced the selection of exercise intensities. In some instances the gym was empty,
but other times there were more people which could
have encouraged modification of intensity selected. Similarly, environmental distractions, such as different music
or TV may have influenced individual responses. Qualitative data from the current study revealed that promoting exercise in a real - world, ecologically valid setting,
may be an important factor that influences the exerciseaffect relationship. Participants found that the gym environment meant that they were less aware of what they
were doing compared to if they had been exercising in a
laboratory setting. One participant commented that she
"could just watch others exercising within the gym, and
not worry about what [she] was doing" with another stating that she was "aware that [she] could just listen to the
music, which helped with [her] pace". Watching other
people exercising, and listening to music and movement
surrounding the participants helped to distract them
from physiological cues, and may have encouraged individuals to select higher exercise intensities, but may also
have been a cause for variability as the environmental
influences may have differed in each session. Therefore,
using the FS in an ecological setting, such as the gym
environment, may encourage individuals to select higher
exercise intensities, or cause variability between sessions
as they may be more distracted from the physiological
cues that contribute to a reduction in exercise intensity
[5] and affective responses [38, 39].

Conclusion
These findings suggest that using the FS in an ecologically valid setting allows individuals to exercise at
an intensity around their _VT , whilst feeling 'good',
particularly on a cycle ergometer. The findings support and build on previous laboratory - based studies,
and show that affective anchors can be used to selfregulate exercise sessions with the potential to then
influence future exercise participation [1, 2]. Taking
this approach for exercise prescription and promotion
has the potential to ensure participants feel good during exercise and thus choose to continue to exercise,
even if at a lower intensity than recommended. In
comparison, other prescriptive approaches focusing on
exercise intensity rather than the affective experience
may initially have greater physiological gains, but may
be experienced as unpleasant and thus discourage further exercise participation.

