The emphasis on synchronization expresses Merleau - Ponty's desire to
take the middle road between rationalism and empiricism, and to strike
a balance between active and passive conceptions of embodiment and
perceptual synthesis. The body is not fully responsible for creating the world
in which it exists, he contends, but neither is it completely vulnerable to all
of the impressions inflicted upon it by material events. It is an entity whose
Synchronic Bodies and Environmental Orientation 85
actions are partly enacted according to its desires and partly dictated by the
impersonal contours of its physical locale. As Madison puts it, "The subject
of perception is not the free subject, the master of itself which realizes itself
to be a unique individual."162 Because the body is bound up with the world
and given a form or "logic"163 that it does not give itself, its capacity for
action, its existence as an "I can" rather than an "I think," is determined by
the "unreasonable promiscuity"164 it carries on with its environment when
it is not reflecting on itself. The pre - personal unity of the body conditions
perception and everything perceptual experience entails. As Morris shows,
"the body only perceives through its anticipatory motor explorations" which
are informed by motor and body schemes that "allow the body to bring the
past into the present, and thus articulate the present in a way that would
otherwise be impossible."165 Let us look at the elements of this past.
Perhaps the central correlation of body and world is habit. Merleau - 
Ponty's account of the habituated body is closely tied to discussions of the
body/postural schema, physiognomic perception, and behavioral circuits,
each of which is supported by what he calls an "intentional arc." The
intentional arc names the set of skills or (non - representational) disposition
that predisposes an agent to perceive and act in the world with optimum
facility. It subtends consciousness and draws together the various threads
of the practicable environment into a meaningful horizon of possibilities.
It does this by first unifying the senses into a synchronized system that
lends sensory coherence to perception. This is what Merleau - Ponty means
by "synaesthetic perception" (PP 229/265). The body is not just a reflex
mechanism, it is a physical entity capable of interpreting, making sense
of, and adapting to the disparity of stimulation it constantly receives.
The "personal core" (PP 134/156) of the body "brings about the unity of
the senses, of intelligence, of sensibility and motility" and "goes limp" in
illness, as the famous Schneider case reveals (PP 136/158 - 159). Habits
are crucial because they provide the body with its historically informed
behavioral identity, in the form of latent or sedimentary sets of actions
that make its surroundings familiar and workable, allowing it to sense and
perceive without always having explicitly to appeal to the personal core of
consciousness. Habit gives the intentional arc a certain regularity.
Habits provide the body with a stable practical form. This means
that, for the body that possesses a stable identity, they are not merely
supplemental or ancillary modifications of a blank corporeity. Or rather,
insofar as we acquire them from our cultural and social environments they
are a kind of original prosthetic, not unlike language (Child 99/4 - 5). They
comprise a substantial part of who we are, how we experience, and what we
can do. Habits allow us to sink our attention in the present without having
to attend at each moment to what the body is presently doing or going to
do. Taken as a unified system the body is, Merleau - Ponty says, "my basic
habit" [l'habitude primordiale] (PP 91/107). In order to free itself from the
environment the body adopts "pre - established circuits" that give it the
space to pursue its intellectual projects. As he says, "it is an inner necessity
for the most integrated existence to provide itself with an habitual body"
(PP 87/103).166 This is a view shared with William James, who maintains
that habit condenses and simplifies the movements required to complete a
particular task, thus habit "diminishes fatigue" by freeing up attention.167
Habit, for James, is a material phenomenon that is registered both on
and in our bodies. He holds that our repertoire of habits "depend[s] on
sensations not attended to," which means that our "body's attitude" or
proprioception subtends the series of movements which make up a given
habitual action, like buttoning a shirt or brushing one's teeth.168 The body's
attitude is written in the body and, like Merleau - Ponty's intentional arc,
what enables the body automatically to make sense of a particular series of
sensations and unify them into a coherent habitual action. As he explains
in The Principles of Psychology, "the phenomena of habit in living beings
are due to the plasticity of the organic materials of which their bodies are
composed."169
Merleau - Ponty does not share James's naturalistic/neuroscientific
interpretation of habit. For Merleau - Ponty habits are not stored in the
physiology of the body as muscle memories or neurological patterns. Habits
are an acquired power built upon the body's unified capacity to grasp an
environmental directive and imbue that directive with a meaningful "motor
significance" of its own (PP 143/167). The sedimentation of a habit in
the body is always permeated, as Edward Casey notes, by the "intentional
threads that go back and forth between the body and its ever - changing
phases, which are continually reanimated by current experience."170 In short,
habits are anchored in the intentional arc.
The acquisition of a habit involves the "rearrangement and renewal
of the body schema," which underlies the habituation process as an
"immediately given invariant" (PP 141, 142/165, 166; translation modified).
The body schema is an invariable corporeal structure, an open system of
motor potentiality that is receptive to the cultivation of habit but not itself
capable of being dissociated from the lived body. It remains open because
it is arranged according to the shifting practical objectives of the subject,
which are not determined in a vacuum but arise in a historical horizon
and are always motivating new projects. The subject sets his or her tasks
according to the layout of his or her situation and the practical possibilities
it presents, while habits reorient the body schema according to the singular
way these possibilities are inhabited. Correlatively, the body schema is
structured as a response to concrete conditions; it is a dynamic form that is
at once shaped by material forces and regulated by the intentional arc and
existential milieu of the embodied agent. Casey writes, "the habituation
which such inhabitation accomplishes involves a delicate dialectic between
the implied passivity of enclosure ... and the activity of getting to know our
way around in a given circumstance."171 There is never a point at which
this dialectic is not underway, which is why Merleau - Ponty says that space
"is already built into my bodily structure, and is its inseparable correlate"
(PP 142/166).
The sedimentation of habits in the lived body releases the subject from
the immediacy of the present and enables the "movement of transcendence"
that characterizes Merleau - Ponty's conception of volition. The movement
of transcendence - which is, paradoxically, enabled by a habitual will - is
never a movement toward absolute transcendence. It is always a relative
transcendence, more like a reconfiguration of the immanence of being in the
world. In his discussion of being in the world we find a decisive statement of
Merleau - Ponty's embodied, correlationist view of transcendence:
The world is inseparable from the subject, but from a subject
which is nothing but a project of the world, and the subject
is inseparable from the world, but from a world which the
subject itself projects. The subject is a being - in - the - world and
the world remains "subjective" since its texture and articulations
are traced out by the subject's movement of transcendence.
(PP 430/491 - 492, my italics)172
As we know, this is not an endorsement of idealism. It does, however,
indicate that Merleau - Ponty sees our capacity to transcend any present
situation as predicated upon the immanent organization of that situation
by the body's perceptual activity. Conversely, this activity must be seen as
a mode of the fundamental passivity of the body. The world, too, turns the
subject into a project. There is a certain plasticity underlying this dialectical
relation. Despite the apparent symmetry, however, there is a sense in
which the plastic correlation of body and world - that is, the immanence of
embodiment - is dominated by the projects/projections of the subject. This
is because the "texture" of the world is an "articulation" of the subject's
practical freedom, which means that the constraints imposed on the subject
by the world are, in a sense, self - imposed. Moreover, Merleau - Ponty
seems to suggest that the world would be a desolate wasteland without
the texture afforded it by subjectivity. It is not so much that the subject
possesses a mysterious power to escape immanence, but that Merleau - 
Ponty's immanence is never pure. It is always already crisscrossed with
avenues of transcendence traced out by the subject. Perception guarantees
the complicity, which is not to say identity, of subject and world because it
has intentionality at its center. Intentionality, as we know, binds subject and
object while it simultaneously polarizes them. Its difference is subtended
by a fundamental sameness. The complicity of intentionality remains
asymmetrical, however, for it is the subject that introduces perception into
the world and initiates the movement of transcendence. The asymmetrical
relation accounts for the ability of the subject to cultivate its own habits.173
Without the movement of transcendence habits could only be imposed on
the body from outside. The body possesses a basic creativity that allows it to
habituate itself from within.
Just as tissue, neurons, blood, bone, and all the rest work together to
form our physiological system, the habits we adopt, cultivate, and inherit
make up the lived body's non - biological armature. Without the economizing
effect of habit our bodies are destined to expend their energy on simple
reflexive behavior or waste it relearning how to perform operations
performed many times before. Our bodies are normally not restricted to
these modes of existence. Much of our lives are routinized and we perform
many tasks as if we were automata. But our automation is only apparent.
Habitual activities actually enable us to expand our range of spontaneous
actions, which is what Merleau - Ponty means when he says that "habit
expresses our power of dilating our being in the world, or changing our
existence by appropriating fresh instruments" (PP 143/168). Although
automatic, they amplify the range of our freedom.
The armature of habit is no less fundamental than the biological
constitution of the body. It is true that Merleau - Ponty says that habit
is "merely a mode" of the body's fundamental capacity to transform
a spontaneous action into a personal gesture (PP 146/171, translation
modified), that habit particularizes the body through repetitious and regular
acts. In contrast to the substantial, teleological self of Aristotle or Aquinas
or Kant, self - identity for Merleau - Ponty "is maintained through time not by
virtue of an unchanging underlying entity, but through repeated action."174
Habit, then, is ontologically basic to embodiment. More strongly, the body
subject is a habit. As Casey shows, the primacy of habit is twofold. First,
habit is the corporeal manifestation of a past that lives on in my body as its
unreflective history. "In this way habit takes the lead over the very body it
requires for its own realization." Second, habit forms the basis upon which
corporeal style and personal expressivity rest. It mediates between the
general, anonymous body and the sculpted body built up by our culture and
conduct.175 In Merleau - Ponty's words:
Although our body does not impose definite instincts upon
us from birth, as it does upon animals, it does at least give to
our life the form of generality, and develops our personal acts
into stable dispositional tendencies. In this sense our nature
is not long - established custom, since custom presupposes the
form of passivity derived from nature. The body is our general
medium for having a world. (PP 146/171)
Habits are what enable the body to comprehend its environment, to
achieve a "harmony between what we aim at and what is given, between
the intention and the performance" (PP 144/169). This understanding is of
course not intellectual, but inscribed in the body as the physiognomy and
corporeal sens (meaning, direction) that at once opens and limits our field of
perception (PP 152/178).
Before we achieve the freedom to cultivate our own habits we must
have reached a workable state of corporeal equilibrium. The forces and
impulses we are born with must be tamed in order to make life manageable.
Only then are we free to take up the world as a field of equipment. In a
sense this is already done for us as we enter into the circuits of behavior
maintained by our culture. As Alphonso Lingis puts it, "One is born with
forces that one did not contrive. One lives by giving form to these forces.
The forms one gets from the others."176 As human beings we are delivered
directly into a world whose form has been shaped by human artifice and
techniques of civilization. These forms are technologically produced and
conducive to the kind of beings we are. Cultural artifacts are ideally made
to enable the postures that we normally adopt as we take our position in the
environment. The built places that receive us as newborn infants already
have us in mind, or they at least anticipate that our bodies will resemble
those which came before. When they do not we rebuild them or adapt our
postures accordingly, or the body endures the labor of forced adaptation
and potential debilitation. The network or circuit of places made to
accommodate our corporeal physiognomies constitutes the meaning of our
built environment, the infrastructure of our culture.
The development of the lived body that Merleau - Ponty describes is
supported not just by the foresight of architects, but also by natural/cultural
atavisms that live on in our human bodies. Following André Leroi - Gourhan,
Lingis explains,
Unlike other mammals, which make their way head first,
the nose is no longer in contact with the environment; the
eyes have become the directing organ. The upright posture
disengaged the hands from the terrain; they now become
coordinated with the eyes. As humans begin to alter and
reconstruct the environment about them, new functions are
taken on by different body parts and organs.177
So, it is not just that our bodies are born into habitable spaces that will
enable the acquisition of habits. The ways in which we as humans have come
to inhabit our environment are ingrained in the physiology of our species,
and therefore operate to construct the postures we assume. This point
echoes, from an evolutionary perspective, Merleau - Ponty's remarks about
the symbiotic relation between the child and its world. Here he is showing a
degree of sympathy with James's more naturalistic perspective:
In fact, from the time of his birth the child who will have
prejudices has been molded by his environment, and in that
respect has undergone a certain exercise of parental authority.
Consequently, there is no moment at which you could grasp,
in a pure state, his way of perceiving, completely apart from
the social conditioning that influences him. Inversely, you can
never say that the way in which the child structures his social
environment is unrelated to the hereditary or constitutional
dispositions of his nervous system. ... And so the internal
characteristics of the subject always intervene in his way
of establishing his relations with what is outside him. It is
never simply the outside which molds him; it is he himself
who takes a position in the face of the external conditions.
(Child 108/16)
Ultimately, the individual is neither social nor natural at its start. He or she
is both at once. The space between these two organizational forces - nature
and culture - possesses an "elasticity" [élasticité], says Merleau - Ponty,
because it can manifest both reactive and active responses within the child
(Child 108/16).
Synchronization and Affective Circuits
The body is similarly caught up in circuits that are basically affective.
Affective circuits lend our bodies an emotional identity by economizing the
things we feel. 178 Since the body is never without its passions, never without
a certain emotional disposition or mood, its affectivity must be regarded as
constitutive of embodiment.179 It can be argued, as Lawrence Hass does,
that it is affectivity that separates us from the world of inanimate things.180
Our affects imbue our intercorporeal encounters with a resonance that
can energize us (joy) or enervate us (sadness). But it is not just personal
encounters that are laced with affectivity - it is the entirety of aesthetic
experience. This insight is behind the almost essentialist discussion of
color in the Phenomenology of Perception, where colors are said to have a
"felt effect" and a "motor significance" that explains why, for instance,
"red signifies effort or violence, green restfulness and peace" (PP 209 - 
211/242 - 244).181 This is not to say that our bodies are hopelessly at the
mercy of sensory stimulation. As Merleau - Ponty argues, "The subject of
sensation is neither a thinker who takes note of a quality, nor an inert setting
which is affected or changed by it, it is a power which is born into, and
simultaneously with, a certain existential environment, or is synchronized
with it" (PP 211/245). Sensory and affective circuits carry our bodies along,
pushing and pulling them, because our bodies are of the sensible realm and
informed by its sensory contours. Yet we retain the ability to seize upon and
transform their meaning, and thus transcend ourselves through aesthetic/
affective creation. "I cannot be caught in immanence," says Paul Klee.182
Gail Weiss explains how the intentional arc enables a series of disparate
affects to be drawn together into a personal circuit of emotion. The
intentional arc acts as the internal circuitry of the lived body in the sense
that it is always running in the background as the (normal) subject sets out
to enter into new and habitual series of tasks. Unlike the habitual circuits
that we find in James, where the body runs according to an established set
of neural pathways that correspond to its observable behavior, for Merleau - 
Ponty it is the body's intentional arc that allows it to engage in habituated
activities unthinkingly. "This intentional arc," writes Weiss, "provides
human beings with an affective sensibility that enables the integration of
quite dissimilar experiences into a synthetic whole."183 For Merleau - Ponty
it is the intentional arc (which is reducible neither to the physical nor
the representational) that underpins the body's competence, its coherent
and almost effortless way of moving, acting, gesturing, and expressing
itself corporeally. Or more specifically, it is the habituation of the body's
intentionality through practical interaction with the environment that
establishes the intentional arc as the grid upon which the world is always
diagrammed.184
There is evidence to suggest that the emotional life of the brain is
at least as fundamental to the lived body's normal functioning as the
meaningful dialogue it carries out at the perceptual level. The point here is
not merely that the lived body cannot perform without having an emotion
and that this emotion is localized in the brain. It is the more salient point
that the meaning culled from the world by the lived body is always in part
produced by the affective valence of our situations. A situation, as Johnson
understands it, is a complex event which occurs between an organism and
its environment. It is analogous to what Merleau - Ponty means by our
existential situation, or being in the world. Drawing from the philosophy of
Dewey as well as the neuroscience of Antonio Damasio, Johnson argues that,
Emotions are key components of complex processes of
assessment, evaluation, and transformation. As such, they are
integral to our ability to grasp the meaning of a situation and
to act appropriately in response to it. Most of this ongoing
processing and action is never consciously entertained, but
it is nonetheless meaningful to us, insofar as it constitutes an
important part of our maintaining a workable relation to our
surroundings.185
Without emotion it is difficult (or impossible) for our bodies to determine
whether or not their present environment is safe to inhabit. Without
emotional assessment the body cannot rationally act or free itself from the
defensive posture in which it remains vigilant against imminent threats.
By the same token, the body cannot read hostility or security into the land
without having fashioned an intentional arc that enables it to judge another
body as congruent or incongruent with itself. Affectivity and intentionality
are woven together, infused in the body's sensibility.
Anticipating a bit, I would say that Merleau - Ponty too often focuses
on the intentional life of the body while neglecting its affective and
material life. In this he remains very much a proponent of the subject
as calculative agent, as actor. It is not that he fails to see that these two
dimensions of embodiment - activity and affectivity - are intertwined and
equiprimordial, but that he tends to pathologize those moments when the
body loses its competent hold on the world or when its intentional arc
loses its coherence.186 This results in an inadequate view of how the body
acquires its identity and maintains its integrity vis - à - vis the environment. In
the same way, he tends to overlook the physical or material aspects of how
objects and emotions orient the body's activity.187 The dialogue of subject
and object - which forms the kernel of Merleau - Ponty's narrative regarding
the primacy of perception - is driven by the exchange of meanings intended
by the conscious body, not by unregistered (autonomic) signals received
from the environment or mundane sensations that fail to solicit attention.
It is, for the most part, only figures or forms which stand out against a
horizon that attract Merleau - Ponty. He has considerably less to say about
insignificant and "neutral" situations, as well as situations where the body
is so overwhelmed that its intentional threads are severed and the figure - 
ground structure is torn asunder.188 I am thinking here of what Foucault
refers to as "limit - experiences." It is the immediacy, it seems to me, that is
significant about these situations (often painful) that Foucault describes as
pushing our bodies to the edge of their power threshold, and thus enhancing
their capacity for pleasure. It is true that our bodies recover from/adapt to
the extreme situations that test their limits - that these situations solicit our
bodies in a particular way that often allows them to incorporate the lesson
of the situation - but the situation as disruptive event, not just its stable
outcome, must also be considered integral to the body's historical identity.189
(Dis)Orientations
Objects, for Merleau - Ponty, have a hand in regulating the intentionality
and material form of the body. "The keyboard," explains Shannon Sullivan,
"has a particular shape and manner of operating that call for a specific
bodily comportment in order to use it."190 There is a plurality of significance
transmitted to the body by the keyboard that can be accommodated in a
variety of ways; the body must adapt itself to these meanings if it wants
to dialogue with, rather than dominate, the object. Entailed in this is the
idea that my body does not perceive the material world without that world
confronting it with a meaning that I have already projected onto it. Sullivan
writes: "The keyboard has a meaningful place within my world because,
through my body's familiarity with the keyboard gained through the
repeated use of it, a piece of plastic and metal has become an extension of
my intentionality." She continues: "My intentionality turns a heavy object
into a paperweight; it is because of my need to hold papers down that a
random stone nearby becomes a cultural object."191 These descriptions
imply that ultimately the lived body, not its object, controls the order of
perceptual significance, the circuits of meaningful behavior, and to some
extent the very form of the objects it confronts.
There are instances, however, when the materiality of the world seizes
upon our bodies and perception is unhinged. And these are not pathological
moments, but constitutive of normal lived experience. Lingis describes the
orgasmic body as one whose seizure is not merely a failure of the intentional
arc, but the result of a decomposition of the body's postural schema itself.
"Does not the orgasmic body figure as a body decomposed, dismembered,
dissolute, where postures and dynamic axes form and deform in the limp
indecisiveness of the erotic trouble? Is it not a breaking down into a mass
of exposed organs, secretions, striated muscles, systems turning into pulp
and susceptibility?"192 In a different context George Yancy describes a scene
wherein the body of a white woman is given over to involuntary gestures that
cannot be explained with a Pavlovian reflex theory or a theory of dialogical
perception. Something else is required to account for the "ambush" of the
black body - the visceral response solicited in a white woman when the body
of a black man enters her elevator. She may tell herself that she knows this
body; that she has a handle on what a black body is and what it wants to
do; that she has no reason to clutch her purse closely. Yancy writes how "she
may come to judge her perception of the Black body as epistemologically
false, but her racism may still have a hold on her lived body."193 Despite
herself, she tenses up, her body recoils. She does not search the man's body
to bring its true sense into relief; nor does she objectify him. She has no
need to: his darkness symbolizes a threat that her sensibility registers with
lightning quickness. She becomes self - aware, nearly to the point of paralysis.
She averts her eyes and fixes them straight ahead, trying to overcome her
body's racism.194 But it is not that the black body's gaze has turned her
into an object, as Sartre would say. It is the very darkness of the man's
body, his sensory and symbolic constitution, that arrests the white woman's
movement. He remains an ambiguous presence, his darkness gripping her in
such a way that her intellect and volition become helpless.
Yancy's work draws insight from Merleau - Ponty, but even more from
Fanon's Black Skin, White Masks, a book wherein Fanon explicitly takes up
the concept of the body schema to interrogate its function in intercorporeal
relations. Ordinarily, the body schema is described as the "implicit
knowledge" possessed by the body that enables it effortlessly to reach for the
cigarettes at the corner of the desk, or lean backward to retrieve the matches
buried in the desk's drawer.195 Such postural facility is experienced by the
white body whether it is in its office or out in public. The black body, by
contrast, is not afforded this facility when the gaze of a white body descends
upon it. Recalling such an encounter, Fanon describes himself as once
upon a time "completely dislocated" by the white gaze, which apprehended
and returned his body to him "sprawled out, distorted, recolored, clad
in mourning...."196 "What else could it be for me but an amputation, an
excision, a hemorrhage that spattered my whole body with black blood?"197
In this scene of confiscation what gets excised from Fanon's subjectivity is
precisely his body schema, or at least its enabling function. It is replaced by
a "racial epidermal schema" that, if anything, disables his body by entering
it into an economy operating according to hues and tints, shades of light
and dark.198
As objectified, the black body becomes laced with legends, symbols,
myths, and fantasies - all of which are woven into it by the look of the white
person and supported by what Fanon calls a "historico - racial schema."199
This schema, which is situated anonymously below the body schema, hijacks
the black body, summoning it to be more than a practical, competent
corporeality - what Merleau - Ponty calls an "I can." Merleau - Ponty plainly
says that it is our competent embodied perception that weaves the fabric of
the real (PP x/iv - v). Fanon reminds us that it is the perception of the white
body that traces the contours of the world and forces the non - white body
to respond accordingly. "I wanted to come lithe and young into a world
that was ours," laments Fanon, "and to help build it together."200 Alas, this
world came readymade for him. To summarize this contrast, we might say
that whereas the white body is solicited by the world to actively complete it,
the black body is made to perform in a world that has always already been
completed for it. It is in this economy of colored skin that the dialogical
theory of perception exposes one of its limitations.
Perceptual experience, vision in particular, can never be divorced from
the historical and cultural milieu that orients the body's postural schema.201
Corporeal orientation is what enables a simple look to confiscate the other's
body and elicit from it involuntary movements and emotions like shame
or fear. This orientation is invariably underwritten by race, among other
social factors. As Sara Ahmed describes it, corporeal orientation is the
point at which a body's world unfolds. This world, we learn from Merleau - 
Ponty, expands outward from its center by the appropriation of language,
tools, and other technologies. And just as our instruments become invisible
once we have adapted ourselves to them - once they become zuhanden,
as Heidegger says - whiteness disappears as a category that normatively
structures the historical a priori of experience, not only for white bodies but
for non - white bodies as well. At any given moment this disappearance is
already accomplished. The norm is set in place. Consequently, a racialized
world oriented by whiteness dilates the white world while simultaneously
contracting the non - white world.202
All bodies depend upon the familiarity of this white world for their work.
Getting things done or "doing things," writes Ahmed, "depends not so much
on intrinsic capacity, or even upon dispositions or habits, but on the ways in
which the world is available as a space for action, a space where things 'have
a certain place' or are 'in place'." If the body is always already racialized and
oriented by whiteness, then the body schema is fundamentally structured
by the world of whiteness and compelled to "inhabit whiteness" in order
to navigate the world with facility, as if it were at home in whiteness, even
when that body is black or brown.203 This, of course, entails that the non - 
white body is never at home unless its home is the world of whiteness. The
orientation of whiteness is precisely what puts "physical objects ... styles,
capacities, aspirations, techniques, habits" within our grasp.204 Conversely,
failing to inhabit whiteness puts many things out of reach.
Reading Merleau - Ponty's Phenomenology, it often seems that the world
he has in mind is for the most part a world filled with things to be handled
or manipulated, a world within reach of anybody or any body whatsoever.
Merleau - Ponty's world is one of practical abilities. This world downplays
how in the process of getting things done the functional use of everyday
objects neglects their sensuous aspects, which require a more attentive,
impractical, or contemplative approach in order to access, accommodate,
and adapt to them.205 To be sure, the manipulation of things leads to
better understanding; this is where knowledge and know - how come from.
But we can manipulate things because we are things ourselves, sensitive
things. Sensing enables us to orient ourselves toward goals and order our
surroundings into a meaningful habitat. For some of us this habitat is more
accommodating than it is for others.
The problem of other bodies, different bodies, is certainly considered
in the Phenomenology. So is sensing. Sense experience is considered at
length. But the exemplary scenes in Merleau - Ponty's text involve a human
being confronting some inanimate object. This encounter anchors the
norms of perception. When the human is incapable of maximizing its grip
on the object, that is, when the human is unable to adjust its body to the
physiognomy of another body, Merleau - Ponty signals a pathology (PP
136/158). Yancy's description of the "elevator effect," Fanon's theory of the
racial epidermal schema, and Ahmed's assessment of racialized corporeal
orientation, however, reveal corporeal incompetence and dissymmetry
as marginalized but no less prevalent norms of embodiment. We too are
manipulated by objects, symbols, and orientations - and not just in ways
that enable our bodies or expand our perceptual grasp.
Identity: Physiognomy and Style
Merleau - Ponty's account of color perception in the Phenomenology
underscores his more general point that the body's communication with its
environment happens primarily at the level of perceptual meaning, or what
he often calls "physiognomy" or "motor physiognomy" (PP 209/243). The
subject is not a pilot navigating the body from within or merely an organic
mechanism. The subject is able to negotiate its surroundings because its
corporeal composition is legible by other bodies, and other bodies are legible
for it. Bodies possess the power to read and respond directly to both formal
and qualitative features. Merleau - Ponty insists that perception is always
laced with sense, and it is this sense that enables the body to respond to
"sensations."206 To say that colors induce the body to move in specific ways
because they display a certain physiognomy is to say that sensory experience
is always figured, that even colors are never experienced as detached from
a significant horizon.207 The body can negotiate this horizon because it
possesses its own physiognomy, one which is arranged by the physiognomy
of the world and displayed in the arsenal of gestures it typically deploys
(PP 143/168).
Merleau - Ponty deploys many concepts to characterize the original unity
of body and world. In the Phenomenology it is perception, physiognomy, and
style; in the course on nature, it is natural environment and the Earth;208 in
The Visible and the Invisible, it is the flesh of the sensible, "this generality of
the Sensible in itself, this anonymity innate to Myself," as Merleau - Ponty
puts it (VI 139/183). Individual bodies for him are always cut from the same
impersonal cloth - personal individuation is something achieved, not given.
The meaning of the personal, however, can only be understood against
the backdrop of a pre - personal milieu, whether this is nature, the sensible
realm as such, or the world as the sum total of profiles or an eminently
expressive style:
The natural world is the horizon of all horizons, the style
of all possible styles, which guarantees for my experiences
a given, not a willed, unity underlying all the disruptions of
my personal and historical life. Its counterpart within me is
the given, general and pre - personal existence of my sensory
functions in which we have discovered the definition of the
body. (PP 330/381)
The concept of style gives us a clue to Merleau - Ponty's understanding
of corporeal identity, which is something dynamically constituted by
environmental conditions and repetitive encounters. It must be maintained;
it is not given. Our bodies are products of the sedimented meaning that
constitutes our cultural milieu and the physical makeup of habitable
space. These conditions comprise the always tenuous historical a priori
which provides the mutable, phenomenal ground upon which the world is
synthesized, understood, and modified by the body - subject.209 Born into
a stylized environment which calls upon it to adopt a compatible bodily
comportment, the body is not inscribed with a style as much as it coherently
expresses a historical embeddedness, a set of social and physical limitations,
constraints, and possibilities. The body is "a certain style informing my
manual gestures and implying in turn a certain style of finger movements,
and contributing, in the last resort, to a certain bodily bearing." Its identity
is, in a word, "a work of art" (PP 150/176).
Style is not fixed in the visible form of the body, nor is it an abstraction
from the many postures a given body exhibits. A style is nothing other
than the specific animation of a body, the invisible force that renders it
recognizable in its singularity (PP 327/378).210 As Graham Harman writes,
"style is a real force that animates the qualities [of a body]."211 Style is not
spontaneous expression, however, and in the last analysis the general style
of the natural and social worlds serves as the condition of possibility for
the emergence of individual style, which is to an extent determined by its
historical and natural milieu.212 "Expression," therefore, "has the form not
only of a creative, but also of a responsive expression."213 Style is an eminently
consistent kind of response to how things are.
By defining it as style, Merleau - Ponty lends a determinate fluidity to
corporeal identity. "A style," he writes, "is a certain manner of dealing with
situations, which I identify or understand in an individual or in a writer, by
taking over that manner myself in a sort of imitative way, even though I may
be quite unable to define it" (PP 327/378). Style is not only recognizable,
it is transferable as well as somewhat vague and elusive. It is precise,
but difficult to trace. Husserl might call it "anexact." Style, of course, is
recognizable across an array of individual examples and generalized from
those many examples. "One can hear a newly discovered Charlie Parker
recording and," notes Harman, "immediately recognize the style; one can
and will say that 'that solo is really classic Bird', even though up till now it
was not part of the known Parker oeuvre."214 Beyond a certain threshold
of differentiation, however, a specific style begins to break up and lose
coherence, perhaps morphing into another style. We can imagine a masterful
jazz musician like Parker deviating so far from his usual delivery so as to
approximate John Coltrane. Like plagiarism, this can happen intentionally
or by accident, unbeknownst to the plagiarist. In such an instance, what
would be left of Parker? Has he not in a sense become Coltrane, insofar as
Coltrane's musical style is the extent of his (audible) identity? In a strong
sense Parker and Coltrane just are the sounds they produce, especially
for the millions who do not know them personally. Merleau - Ponty gives
a visual example in The Visible and the Invisible, explaining that a pebble
or a shell exhibits an identity that persists throughout "their variations"
but "within certain limits." On this principle of identity bodies maintain
their identity so long as their sensible modifications do not disintegrate the
style that animates them, whether this style is self - generated, borrowed, or
remixed from already available styles. Identity is lost when a body moves
"beyond a certain range of their changes" (VI 161/213), or crosses a stylistic
threshold.215 Merleau - Ponty does not fully explore the causes of these
deviations in identity, but he gives one of the best accounts of what style
means for identity.
For Descartes, by contrast, it is the mind that judges an object's
identity as continuous throughout its modifications, or that determines a
cloaked figure perceived from some distance to be a person rather than
an automaton.216 It is this same mind which, removed from the mutable
world of extended substance, retains its identity and subsists through every
modification of the body. For Merleau - Ponty it is the body that recognizes
another human being beneath the cloak. And it is the cloaked figure's style
of moving that gives it away. "It is through my body that I understand other
people, just as it is through my body that I perceive 'things'" (PP 186/216).
The dialectic of recognition becomes a dialogue of styles that unfolds
without the mediating judgment of the mind. "The concept of style,"
writes Linda Singer, "secures the Other's direct accessibility as a distinctive
way of inhabiting the world. ... His integrity is not that of a conceptual
consistency, but of an existential project which is directly present, even if
I cannot reconstruct its inner workings."217 In Merleau - Ponty's words, the
other is for me "an unchallengeable style" that relays its identity to my own
body's identity and makes the other "in principle accessible to me as I am to
myself" (PP 364/418; SB 222/238).
Style is one of the most supple phenomena adduced by Merleau - Ponty.
It "ensures my existence of a stability, while allowing for the possibility of
growth and change."218 James, as we will see, refers to this stable instability
as plasticity. Merleau - Ponty, for his part, directs us to the fluid constitution
of bodily integrity. He defines the intercorporeal realm as a sphere of
immanence where bodies communicate, influence, and reinforce each other.
This communication is at once personal and anonymous, inherited and
created.219 But corporeal style remains always dependent upon the body
schema, which offers a constant stability amid the flux of intercorporeal
dialogue. Gallagher points out that the body schema should not be regarded
as something standing between subject and object as mediator or "screen"
(SB 219/236), but rather, "insofar as it is dynamic in taking up certain
postures and thus situating the body in respect to the environment, it
remains experientially invisible - absently available."220 It is there and not
there, operating in the "active role of organizer" of sensations as something
that "reflects and determines the posture that is taken up by the lived
body in its everyday situations."221 This seems to suggest that the activity
of the body schema plays a more fundamental role in the organization of
perception than any other component, including style, habit, or sensibility.
Identity: Body Schema
Faithful to phenomenological doctrine, Merleau - Ponty contends that a
figure against a background is the simplest form of experience. Experience
tells us this. But his point is not merely empirical. Lest we interpret
his observation as a simple empirical truth, he notes that "this is not
a contingent characteristic of factual perception" (PP 4/10). It is an
ontological truth, a truth about how the world is structured transcendentally.
And like all transcendentals in Merleau - Ponty, it is historically conditioned
by perception. As Elizabeth Grosz points out, the body schema (she says
"body image") is at work in the structuring of this a priori. She writes,
The body image is necessary for the distinction between
figure and ground, or between central and peripheral actions.
Relative to its environment, the body image separates the
subject's body from a background of forces; but also within the
body, the body image establishes the distinctions - between
movements of limbs, say, and the rest of the body - which
provide it with its corporeal context. A single movement
reorients the whole of the body, creating what might be called
a gait or posture, an individual and cultural bodily style.222
Sullivan refers to this orienting of the environment/other as "projective
intentionality" and, like Grosz, sees such a view as troubling from a
feminist ethical perspective: Instead of being an account of the dynamic,
co - constitutive relationship between self and other, the model of
intersubjectivity offered by Merleau - Ponty tends toward that of a subject's
monologue with itself that includes a domineering erasure of others in its
projective 'communication' with them.223
Although invaluable for understanding the corporeal structure of lived
experience, Merleau - Ponty's account of the body schema is often blind
to raced, gendered, and other forms of embodiment.224 I would add that
he equally neglects unfigured experience, or the experience of sensing
what is ungraspable - for example, wind, cold, sunlight; the elemental or
atmospheric in general - that does not stand out in relief against a backdrop.
This blind spot in Merleau - Ponty's ontology, which ties the structure of
the world to the constitution of the body schema, informs his view that
body and environment, subject and object, are synchronized or reversible,
and that our primary mode of engagement with the world is our familiar
manipulation of things as well as their innocuous solicitation of us.
We have already seen that habits are specific rearrangements of the
general body schema, which serves as the variable invariant, as it were,
against which the modifications of the body are registered. We have seen,
moreover, how Fanon, Yancy, and Ahmed call into question the normative
historicity of the body schema, and how Grosz and Sullivan raise problems
about its constitutive activity. It then becomes possible to say that the
body schema's dynamic relation with its environment is constitutive of
its individuation and that its apparent invariance (PP 141/165) applies
only to its function as active regulator of movement, but does not apply to
any determinate regulations themselves. These regulations are normative,
determined culturally, historically, intercorporeally; they configure and are
configured by the world we perceive. Despite its historical variance the body
schema nevertheless operates for Merleau - Ponty as the dominant organizing
principle of perception. From the perspective of lived experience, then, the
world must appear as complicit or synchronized with the body - subject's
practical agenda, even if this agenda is laced with anonymous, impersonal,
and unconscious prejudices - with alterity.
On the one hand, it is possible to characterize Merleau - Ponty's
conception of the body schema and habit as plastic, as does Weiss.225
This does not mean that the lived body's structure begins as a blank,
undifferentiated slate and only subsequently becomes schematized and
habituated. The lived body requires habits and body schemata in order
to perceive, and without them "perception is impossible," says Merleau - 
Ponty (Child 122/37). They are a basic condition of perception, not just an
outcome of it. These basic structures maintain their stability while remaining
open to modifications that would restructure them. The modifications
could be perceptual or physiological. Since perception is internally linked
to the body's constitution (in as much as the body is part of the world of
perception), any restructuring entails a new style of movement, and thus a
new perceptual experience. As Merleau - Ponty writes, "This link between
motility and perception shows at what point it is true to say that the two
functions are only two aspects of a single totality and that the perception
of one's entry into the world and of one's own body form a system"
(Child 122/38).
On the other hand, Merleau - Ponty seems resistant to the idea that the
lived body is fully plastic, completely open to external modification or
destruction. There appears to be something indestructible about the lived
body. Insofar as it is a living (human) body, and not a body reduced to its
objective relations in the world - a merely material body - it maintains a set
of transcendental invariants that do not succumb to the effects of material
transformation or physical breakdown. Or, put differently, it is not clear
on Merleau - Ponty's analysis how these invariants could ever be directly
affected by material forces; they themselves are not material and they have
no material basis. They are, as it were, incorporeal corporealities. Included
among these, the body schema, consciousness, and intentionality serve as
the limit conditions of the embodied subject, that is to say, the conditions
that compose the agent to whom the world appears and from whom the
world receives its meaning, but who also remains out of step with the
world's physicality. The difference of the lived body is precisely its non - 
physical constitution.
Also among these invariants is the figure - ground structure of perception,
something only possessed by beings with bodies like ours. The figure - ground
structure is grounded in the body schema, which suggests that the body
schema must be always present in some form for the body to perceive. If
this is true, then perception must submit its primacy to the body's postural
latency, which is internally related to perception but also determined by
the body's physical, physiological, and generally material dynamics, some
of which are not perceptual and can be metaphysically separated from
the perceptual system. Put otherwise, the lived body is dual in nature:
it is both physical and non - physical, material and transcendental. These
aspects are internally related and inseparable, but it is clear that Merleau - 
Ponty favors the lived body as in some sense constitutive of objectivity,
including the objectivity of the physical body. But could the lived body exist
without the physical, objective body? Is the lived body transcendental in
the strong sense, the condition of possibility of the objective body? It seems
that it would have to be if it is the case that perception is the condition of
possibility of the world. This would also mean that the lived body cannot
be fully destroyed by the physical world, that something of it transcends
the body's materiality. Merleau - Ponty's language of flesh and incarnation
suggests a "spiritual" dimension to the lived body, although he is careful to
avoid that term.
The lived body is essentially the perceiving body. Perception is what
gives the body its life. But perception depends upon the body schema, which
is vulnerable to imperceptible forces. While the dialectic of perception may
work to reconfigure and reorient the body schema, material forces threaten
to destabilize/deschematize it, along with the figure - ground structure of
intentionality and even perception itself. An unschematized body is longer
capable of distinguishing figures or grounds and is not, therefore, able to
enter into dialogue with its environment. Such a body would not be "lived,"
in Merleau - Ponty's terms; it would be reduced to an object. But the lived
body is an object; its objectivity is the site of its living. Without it there is no
place for perception or consciousness to occur, no place from which the
body schema or figure - ground horizon can organize the world of perception.
The latter are not the pure conditions of possibility for the world to appear,
for they themselves cannot appear without the objective body that functions
as their material locus.
All of this is to say that the lived body is discontinuous with the material
world in which it is embedded. There is a diachrony that marks the interface
of body and world. And yet, in Merleau - Ponty's view, body and world are
synchronous with each other. They are ontologically parallel and internally
related, co - constitutive. What I am suggesting is that this is true only at the
level of perception, but not at the deepest level of their relation - sensibility.
Since, on Merleau - Ponty's view, perception presupposes a functioning
body schema, and the body schema is acquired dialogically, body and
world must be synchronized for perception to occur. Otherwise, the body
schema could not develop and the dialogue could not occur. I think this
synchronization is required for Merleau - Ponty's conception of reversibility,
which is implicit in the Phenomenology and explicitly emphasized in The
Visible and the Invisible. It is responsible for his view that subjects and objects
are basically articulations of a single sensible element called the flesh,
where "seer and visible reciprocate one another and we no longer know
which sees and which is seen" (VI 139/183). If the subject - object relation
is fundamentally diachronic, however, then it is not properly reversible. It
is asymmetrical. And it is sensibility, I will argue, alongside Levinas, that
introduces asymmetry into the subject - object relation.
A Synchronous Sensibility
The language of synchrony is employed by Merleau - Ponty on many
occasions to describe the body - world relation. It is a recurrent trope in his
texts. He speaks, for instance, of impersonal biological life and personal
life as for the most part operating in concert, the former being "practically
taken for granted" as something "I rely on to keep me alive." As he frames it,
we exist "without being able either to reduce the organism to its existential
self, or itself to the organism" (PP 84/99). Citing the biography of Saint - 
Exupéry, Merleau - Ponty notes that on rare occasions our organic life can
be almost completely suppressed by our personal life: "It may even happen
when I am in danger that my human situation abolishes my biological one,
that my body lends itself without reserve to action" (PP 84/99). Later in the
Phenomenology he explicitly notes the synchronization of the biological and
the human, yet lends a certain primacy to the biological:
as we have indicated above, biological existence is
synchronized [embrayée] with human existence and is never
indifferent to its distinctive rhythm. Nevertheless, we shall
now add, "living" (leben) is a primary process from which, as
a starting point, it becomes possible to "live" (erleben) this or
that world, and we must eat and breathe before perceiving
and awakening to relational living, belonging to colours and
lights through sight, to sound through hearing, to the body of
another through sexuality, before arriving at the life of human
relations. (PP 159 - 160/186)
Instead of taking this as a glimpse into Merleau - Ponty's tacit naturalism, we
should see it as an example of his "empirically responsible" phenomenology,
but an example that seems to oppose his primacy of perception argument.
From an existential point of view the biological does not come first; the
human is not built upon the organic body. The lived body expresses,
reciprocally, the physiological and psychic because it always already finds
itself absorbed in a meaningful circuit of behavior. Its biology must be
understood and expressed within its lifeworld.
This is one of the reasons why Merleau - Ponty speaks on the one hand
of an original syncretism of body and world, but then quickly dispels the
notion that sensing (sentir) is ever without a human sense (PP 211/245).
And yet, he speaks of sensibility as belonging to an anonymous life of the
senses that thrives "on the fringe of my own personal life and acts." He
writes, "Each time I experience a sensation, I feel that it concerns not my
own being ... but another self which has already sided with the world, which
is already open to certain of its aspects and synchronized [synchronisé] with
them" (PP 216/250). Now, this is a form of synchrony that the lived body is
not in control of, for it is established imperceptibly and concerns the body
as something that senses before it perceives, that lives materially before it
grasps meaningfully. It hints at an aesthetic dimension operating below the
radar of perception.
It is here that we see Merleau - Ponty catching sight of the immanent
relation between sensing and sensed that characterizes his notion of flesh.
More important for us, however, we are shown the diachronic point at
which the body - world relation becomes a volatile one. It is at the level of
sensing that the body is at its most vulnerable, where its hold on the world
and its capacity to dialogue with other bodies is not yet accomplished, and
is even susceptible to experiences that could dismantle its integrity. It is here
that body and world become unhinged.
Sensing relies on a synchronization or synthesis of the senses (with each
other and with their proper objects) whereby each organ's unique means
of exploring is brought together in the intersensory realm of perception.
Perception is made possible by the "domain of sense itself, the community
of significance between [the visual and tactile] being inadequate to ensure
their union in one single experience" (PP 225/260). This union, as we
have seen, is effected by the body and the intentional arc that allows it to
actualize the "motor potentiality" of an object and thereby effectively grasp
its meaning. Merleau - Ponty writes:
I am able to touch effectively only if the phenomenon finds
an echo within me, if it accords with a certain nature of my
consciousness, and if the organ which goes out to meet it
is synchronized with it. The unity and identity of the tactile
phenomenon do not come about through any synthesis
of recognition in the concept, they are founded upon the
unity and identity of the body as a synergic totality. (PP
316 - 317/366)
Thus, the dialogue of subject and object, of styles and physiognomies, only
occurs when the lived body is capable of conforming itself to the "logic of
the world," that is, when it is capable of synchronizing with it (PP 326/377).
In his treatment of sensibility/sense experience Merleau - Ponty seems
to acknowledge the diachrony of sensation and its capacity to disrupt
body - world synchrony. But, as we will see, he is reluctant to assign explicit
primacy to sensing over perceiving. Indeed, these distinct modes of
experience - the former unwieldy, the latter organized - are either conflated
or collapsed in most of Merleau - Ponty's descriptions. Understood as a pre - 
perceptual and anonymous mode of embodiment, the volatility of sensing
poses a threat to the synchronization of body and world. It opens the body
to forces foreign to perception.
The concept of flesh developed in The Visible and the Invisible follows up
the idea of synchronization with the insight that seer and seen, touching and
touched, are reversible or chiasmic phenomena. The subject - object dialogue,
which retains the dualist form, is transformed into an immanent ontology
that regards subjects and objects as individual expressions of the sensible in
general. I would not want to go so far as to say that such a move "reduces
the other to the same" or eliminates alterity from intercorporeal relations.
However, I do agree with Levinas when he says that "[there is a] priority of
the flesh ... to the detriment of another ambiguity or ambivalence, that of
the enigma of sensation - sentiment, which is played out in the passivity of the
senses affected [sens affectés] by the sensorial, between the pure undergoing or
suffering and eventual pain, and the known [su] of knowledge that remains
behind as its residue or trace."226 Later I will return to this insight.
Not unlike the idealists, Merleau - Ponty tames the volatility of sensation
in two ways: first, by defining it in terms of synchrony and treating it as
something that for the most part enables our perceptual competence; and,
more radically, by invoking a "fundamental narcissism of all vision," which is
supposed to describe the mode of being of the flesh. The general reversibility
signaled by this portrayal of the sensible may indeed pertain to peaceful
and mundane experiences of otherness, but it neglects the many ways that
sensation can disable us, as well as the uncertainty, if not danger, involved
as our bodies move from one sensory environment to another. It does not
do justice to novel or extreme sensations, and it downplays the reality of
hostile or deadly environments. In a word, it mitigates the vulnerability
of our bodies.
As noted, Merleau - Ponty does recognize a layer of sensation that
operates "below" perception. As pre - perceptual it does not solicit dialogue
with the lived body. Instead, it remains out of sync with lived experience
and descends upon the body with a volatile proposition.227 Merleau - 
Ponty's emphasis on body - world synchronization obscures the asymmetry
of intercorporeity at the level of sensation. This results from his desire to
assimilate sensing (le sentir) to the model of perception as "communion,"
which tends to regard otherness as generally hospitable. The thesis of
reversibility can only be advanced by ignoring the resistant alterity of the
material world, that is, at the peril of sensation's volatility. This is why
neither the phenomenology of perception nor the ontology of the flesh can
adequately address the problems of embodiment and why the metaphysics
of bodies we find in Spinoza or Nietzsche,228 for instance, must also be
consulted in order to decipher the meaning of the body.
In giving an account of subjectivity and the immanence of the body - 
world relation Merleau - Ponty makes significant advances past Kant and
Husserl by developing concepts such as style, physiognomy, and habit.
These concepts allow him to speak coherently about perception and
intersubjectivity as corporeal interactions that do not require the mediation
of an immaterial transcendental subject or disembodied mind. For this
reason, Merleau - Ponty can be regarded as a kind of materialist.229 This
ambition becomes even more apparent when he is writing about sensing, or
when he speaks of the "carnality" of the flesh in The Visible and the Invisible.
There his theory of embodied perception shifts its focus from the form of
perception to the material of perception - that is, sensation, or the sensible
as such. It is in his analysis of sensing that we can best see Merleau - Ponty
trying to secure the immanence of body and environment. His commitment
to immanence, however, is limited by his commitment to the primacy of
perception thesis and his methodological commitment to the principle
of intentionality. Both of these reintroduce a measure of distance, or
transcendence, into immanence. The limit of his materialism appears when
his theory of habit is contrasted with a neurophysiological account like that
given by James.
At this point and beyond I remain agnostic on the question of whether or
not Merleau - Ponty succeeds at establishing the materiality of the world and
making concrete the phenomenological subject. That is, it is not clear to me
that he has the resources to argue for the material reality of the body or its
world. What is clear is that in his attempt to do justice to the subjective and
objective sides of experience he tends to provide more substantial arguments
for the constructivist view of the subject. This is no reason to abandon his
path in favor of another, but it does call into question the degree to which
his corporeal descriptions distance him from the idealism of Husserlian
phenomenology.230
Chapter 3
Perception, Sensation, and the Problem of Violence
The body is a strange thing, and when it is caught up
in an accident involving non - human forces, there is no
predicting the result.
Aira, An Episode in the Life of a Landscape Painter
Merleau - Ponty begins his rehabilitation of sensation as early as
Phenomenology of Perception. After rejecting the modern view of sensation
as a discrete unit of content that must be assembled by the mind with
other units in order to build the objects of perception, he endorses a view
of sensation as sensing (a more appropriate translation of le sentir, sense
experience)231 which is adapted primarily from Erwin Straus's The Primary
World of Senses, on the one hand, and Husserl's Ideas II, on the other. His
idea of sensing regards it as "that vital communication with the world
which makes it present as a familiar setting of our life" (PP 52 - 53/64 - 
65). He thus makes sensation central to his post - dualist perspective and
incorporates it into the primacy of perception thesis he champions. The
trouble is that he uses the concept in several, not always compatible, ways.
Its reference shifts throughout his texts. Although I will not catalogue every
nuance of le sentir or la sensation, I will adduce some of the divergent uses
of "sensing" in Merleau - Ponty's texts. At the same time I will argue that
one particular usage best captures the significance of sensing, namely, that
sensing is the body's primary mode of engagement with otherness; that it
operates below the level of intentionality (and therefore perception); and
that it is even more basic than operative intentionality, which Merleau - 
Ponty identifies as the "natural and antepredicative" form of perception.
The operative form of intentionality negotiates the body's first contact with
the phenomenal field, "furnishing the text which our knowledge tries to
translate [via explicit judgments] into precise language" (PP xviii/xiii). It is
tacit, "unconscious." Like operative intentionality, sensing denotes a certain
imperceptible continuity between body and world, and it is fundamental to
Merleau - Ponty's corporeal philosophy. While his privileging of perception
often elevates the perceiving subject above the perceived object, there is a
pervasive sense in which the dialectical relation between subject and object
is primary for him. He does not fully appreciate, however, the subject's
passivity in this dialectic.
A Healthy Ambiguity
It is notable that Merleau - Ponty recognizes a distinction between
sensation and perception. Indeed, it is this distinction that motivates the
present analysis of his work. Whereas perception is constantly striving
to pull objects out of their ambiguous presence and into workable relief
from their background, it is sensation that occasionally threatens to
break up the synchrony enjoyed by perceptual experience. To claim that
such interruptions are merely invitations to explore the undiscovered
meanings contained in the perceptual horizon, as Merleau - Ponty and his
commentators often do, is to miss the qualitative difference between an
experience that beckons our attention (perception) and one that directly
engages - sometimes forcibly - our bodies (sensation). This is not to
say that sensation marks the suffering of the body, but it is sometimes
that. He writes: "With the problem of sense experience, we rediscover
that of association and passivity" (PP 53/65). Perception, by contrast, is
never merely passive; nothing just "happens" to the lived body. That is,
there are no non - subjective perceptual events (PP 411/470). There are,
however, "vital event[s]" that occur unconsciously (Nature 174). Are these
events sensed, perceived, or both? Neither? It is not clear how they are
phenomenologically disclosed.
Sensation is often assimilated to perception in Merleau - Ponty's texts.
When this happens there is a problematic reduction of the alterity of
sensation, as well as a glossing of the problem of passivity posed by sense
experience. Once again, a healthy ambiguity inhabits the border between
sensing and perceiving and Merleau - Ponty knows this, even exploits it. The
ambiguity makes it difficult to know whether he intended to differentiate
rigorously two ontologically distinct layers of experience, or if he desired
simply to demarcate two aspects of perception: the affective/passive and
the intellectual/active. My view is that he explicitly regards sensing as a
mode of perception, but in his explication of le sentir he also uncovers a
lost dimension of embodiment that cannot be readily recuperated by his
model of perception. The question now becomes, does Merleau - Ponty
attempt to incorporate the "problem of sense experience" into the problem
of perception? Or is there something about sense experience that proves
intractable for the phenomenology of perception? At the end of the day,
the ambiguity that motivates these questions proves irresolvable and yet,
precisely for this reason, worthy of interrogation.
Perhaps anticipating that a simple privileging of embodiment is not
sufficient to liberate phenomenology from transcendental idealism,
Merleau - Ponty suggests that it is the "primary layer [couche originaire] of
sense experience [sentir]" that allows perception to "break with the critical
attitude" (PP 238, 239/276). It is here that Merleau - Ponty most deliberately
departs from his idealist precursors in order to chart the existence of an
experience not prey to any kind of subjective synthesis. By beginning with
what is phenomenally sensible, he begins with an always already synthesized
form/content instead of positing a discrete form and content that are only
brought together by a unifying faculty.
I start from unified experience and from there acquire, in a
secondary way, consciousness of a unifying activity when,
taking up an analytical attitude, I break perception into
qualities and sensation, and when, in order to recapture on
the basis of these the object into which I was in the first place
blindly thrown, I am obliged to suppose an act of synthesis
which is merely the counterpart of my analysis. (PP 276 - 
277/275; cf. PrP 25/69)
The classical approach to experience begins with abstractions, not with
what is given, and is responsible for the mistaken view that the subject's
role in experience is to provide the chaotic world of sensation with formal
order. Merleau - Ponty's concern is to keep the subject always in touch with
the objective world and to demonstrate that this immanent relation is the
source of the content of perception and, by consequence, the form of the
world. This results in the view that the world does not achieve any explicit
form unless it is in dialogue with a human agent, which sounds like idealism.
"The thing is inseparable from a person perceiving it, and can never be
actually in itself because its articulations are those of our very existence..."
(PP 320/370). Oftentimes the subject of perception is described by
Merleau - Ponty as immediately in touch with a semi - determinate, but never
amorphous, world of things always on its way to becoming more precisely
formed and therefore more hospitable to the body's motor capacity.
This ambiguous and anonymous "lifeworld" provides the transcendental
conditions of perception (PP 365/418 - 419).232 More fundamental than the
lifeworld, I would suggest, is the realm of the sensible.
Anonymity
Both sensation and perception are occasionally designated as anonymous, as
when Merleau - Ponty writes that "Sensation [sensation] can be anonymous
only because it is incomplete." Or: "Perception is always in the mode of the
impersonal 'One'" (PP 216, 240/250, 277). These remarks have generated
consistent criticism from feminist philosophers who charge that by affirming
the reality of an anonymous body, Merleau - Ponty overlooks the role that
gender plays in the construction of experience. This criticism is justifiable,
but it does not apply to all of the senses of "anonymous" employed by
Merleau - Ponty. That is, it does not apply to the anonymity of sensation
insofar as sensation is something undergone by the body unconsciously or
pre - personally. Before explicating this level of sensation we need to see what
else is anonymous for Merleau - Ponty.
There are at least four sites of anonymity noted by Merleau - Ponty.
First, there is the pre - communicative stage in the psychogenesis of the
child, where his or her body is not yet distinguishable from the body of
another. Here "there is not one individual over against another but rather
an anonymous collectivity, an undifferentiated group life" (Child 119/33).
Second, there is the anonymity of habitual actions. It is true that a person's
habits inform their style, and thus their personal identity. But to the extent
that habits can be triggered unthinkingly or operate automatically, they
possess a certain anonymity. Third, Merleau - Ponty sometimes speaks of
the body in general, by which he means the organic body that lives "as a
prepersonal cleaving to the general form of the world, as an anonymous and
general existence" (PP 84/99). The idea of a general - that is, gender - free,
race - free, ability - free - body "beneath" the personal is problematic because,
as Sullivan argues, it suggests a neutral ground upon which our bodies
communicate with other bodies. But, the objection runs, no such ground
exists, as our bodies are always individuated by habits and other historically
particular bodily behaviors. When I assume that the gestures of the other
are understandable because we share a common body, then I run the risk of
deciphering the other in terms of my corporeity (or the myth of a universal
body), rather than trying to achieve a site of communication that preserves
the other's particularities.233
Johanna Oksala rejects the view that an anonymous body subtends the
intersubjective relation and that intersubjectivity is something that needs to
be achieved. She argues that the body - subject is historically generated all the
way down by "language, tradition, and community."234 Even the anonymous
body is structured by environmental and social conditions. We have already
seen that Merleau - Ponty does not quite offer a fully historicized lived body,
that there are certain structural invariants that assume different modes
but are ontologically immutable. Or, as Butler argues with reference to his
treatment of sexuality, Merleau - Ponty's appeal to "the universal structures
of bodily existence" "prefigures the analysis of lived experience, investing the
body with an ahistorical structure which is in actuality profoundly historical
in origin."235 Whether or not he subscribes to an invariant general body, it
seems that Merleau - Ponty recognizes at least one anonymity that is radically
ahistorical: the anonymity of sensation, "which remains forever anterior to
our perception." This is the fourth site of anonymity, the transcendental
mode of sensation.
Modes of Sensation
There are two forms of sensation at play in Merleau - Ponty's philosophy, one
that he criticizes (call it "substantive" sensation) and one that he endorses
(call it "transitive" sensation). The transitive form is conceived under two
registers: the phenomenological and the transcendental. It is implied in his
term "sensing" (sentir).236 Despite what has been said about the impurity of
Merleau - Ponty's transcendental philosophy he does provide a concept of
sensation that is close to a pure a priori. Sensation, on this reading, serves as
a necessary, unconditioned condition of perceptual experience. But to argue
for the primacy of sensation in Merleau - Ponty, as I am here, it is necessary to
contrast the notion of sensing developed in the "Sense Experience" chapter
of Phenomenology of Perception with the classical conception of sensation (la
sensation) found in modern philosophy, which Merleau - Ponty critiques in
the opening chapter of his text.
The classical notion of sensation views sensations as data, as discrete
bits of material received from the external world and processed by the
mind into representations of that world. Merleau - Ponty rejects this view as
a fiction that betrays the evidence of experience, but he does not provide
a full - fledged alternative to the modern view. Likely fearing that he would
merely be replacing one abstraction for another, he elects instead to turn
to the evidence of lived experience, that is, the world of perception. His
positive thinking about sensation, then, is overshadowed by his critique of
sensation as a "unit of experience." This is unfortunate because his own view
of sensing forms the basis of his theory of painting in essays like "Cézanne's
Doubt" and "Eye and Mind," and it is crucial to understanding that theory.
Since he proclaims that "any theory of painting is a metaphysics" (EM
171/42), an understanding of his conception of sensing can reveal important
features of his metaphysics.
The classical view of sensation which Merleau - Ponty rejects gets
reinforced in everyday language when we speak of sensations as discrete
properties that cause us to see a book as red or to feel it as smooth, for
example. Red and smooth, we say, belong to the cover of this book and it is
Perception, Sensation, and the Problem of Violence 117
these properties that affect, separately, our visual and tactile senses. Color is
received by the eyes; texture is apprehended by the fingertips. It is the book
that is red and smooth, and it is the task of the mind to reassemble these
stimuli into representations that correspond to the objects that produce
them. The problem with this view is that it places metaphysical prejudices
ahead of experience (PP 5/11) and results in a backward view of the nature
of things and how we know them, according to the phenomenologist. As
Taylor Carman puts it,
Nowhere in our perceptual awareness do we come across
discrete qualitative bits of experience fully abstracted from
the external, perceptually coherent environment. ... This is in
part just to say that perceptual experience is intentional, that
it is of something, whereas impressions, sensations, and sense
data are supposed to be the nonintentional stuff from which
the mind somehow extracts or constructs an experience of
something.237
We perceive things, not sensory units. Sensation, phenomenology teaches
us, is inferred from perception when we reflect on how it is that an object,
which is "not completely our work," can transmit its qualities to us (PP
37/46). This classical (and quotidian) line of thinking assumes that objects
exist apart from us, fully formed with sharp boundaries and fixed properties.
It puts an objectivist metaphysics and naïve realism ahead of the ambiguous
content of perception, which for Merleau - Ponty is the first and final arbiter
of what exists. "Experience," writes Carman, "rarely exhibits such sharply
defined features ... and no analysis of perception into discrete attitudes with
crisply defined contents intending isolated qualities can capture the peculiar
'perceptual milieu', always at once a 'behavioral milieu', in which things
show up for us under meaningful aspects."238 When we attend to what we are
actually given, we never discover sensations. Instead, we find figures against
backgrounds and semi - determinate bodies which become more determinate
as perception catalogues their adumbrations. We find qualities that entice
and repel us, a sensible realm that perception "infuses" [imprègne] with
significance and style (PP 34/43).
What is required is a concept of sensation that does not reduce the
style of the sensible to the intentional life of the perceiving subject and
does not completely subject the materiality of sensation, its affective
and imperceptible directive force, to the formality of the understanding
or practical orientation of the body. Shying away from the language of
sensation, Merleau - Ponty speaks of sensing as "an experience in which we
are given not 'dead' qualities, but active ones" (PP 52/64). This is what I am
calling the shift from a substantive notion of sensation ("dead qualities")
to a transitive one ("active qualities"). In Merleau - Ponty's terms, sensing is
that "vital communication with the world" which makes it feel like home,
familiar and manageable. Sensing "invests the quality with vital value,
grasping it first in its meaning for us, for that heavy mass which is our body,
whence it comes about that it always involves a reference to the body" (PP
52 - 53/64 - 65). By interpreting it as communal Merleau - Ponty indicates
that sensing has active and passive dimensions. Sensing receives the world
and seizes it. By making sensing a corporeal event he puts the subject
immediately in touch with the object itself. But, of course, this is an impure
immediacy, mediated by the invariant structures that keep the body out of
step with the physical world.
The insistence that sensing is a bodily event at once active and passive
is taken over from Husserl and Erwin Straus, both of whom contest the
Aristotelian idea that sensing is analogous to a piece of wax receiving the
imprint of a seal. In addition to the sensations that fill our representations,
Husserl's Ideas II describes the role that kinaesthetic sensations (kinaestheses)
play in the constitution of perception. Kinaestheses are the non - 
representational sensations that guide motility. They denote "one's inner
sense of the movements, tensions and possibilities of one's own Body," as
Alia Al - Saji puts it. As the body moves about its environment, negotiating its
contours and encountering other bodies, it responds almost automatically
to the directives and solicitations communicated to it. This practical know - 
how, or competence, requires no mediating idea or judgment in order to be
executed, although it typically draws on established habits. As Al - Saji says,
"there is no question of mimesis between kinaestheses and the qualities of
the perceived thing. It is rather by moving around things and tracing their
contours that kinaestheses make perception, as a concrete dynamic process,
possible."239 She concludes: "Kinaesthetic sensations are hence a function
of my Body's orientation in the world; they are my way of feeling the active
engagement of my Body with an outside."240
A similar view of the function of sensation - as non - representational,
directive - is found in the work of Straus, a figure to whom Merleau - Ponty's
Phenomenology appeals and whose analysis of sensing clearly influenced
the latter's own position. In The Primary World of Senses Straus argues that
Descartes is responsible for the pervasive view that sensations are ideas,
merely mental events. "As mere ideas of color, light, and the like, sensations
to Descartes lack any intrinsic contact with physical things. This relationship
is only inferred...."241 On this view, the subject has sensations but does not
properly receive, let alone suffer, them. This is because the subject who
senses, for Descartes, is "removed from time and becoming" and "receives
indifferently and unmoved."242 For Straus, this entails the elimination of the
"life" of sensing, by which he means its dialogical or communal character as
well as it affective force. He writes:
All sensory impressions are answers to questions; they are not
simply there in the way in which the physiological processes
underlying them are. We receive sensory impressions insofar as
we orient ourselves within our primary relationship with the
world by questing, seeking, expecting.243
Sensing and knowing are sharply distinguished in Straus's view. When we
know something, we grasp its meaning by suspending our vital commerce
and rendering an explicit judgment about the thing in question. This image
of cognition is analogous to what Merleau - Ponty calls intentionality of act.
"Sensing," which is closer to Merleau - Ponty's operative intentionality, is "a
sympathetic experiencing. It is directed to the physiognomic characteristics
of the alluring and the frightening," says Straus. He continues, in language
echoed in Phenomenology of Perception,
When we grasp an expression, a communion is established
which seizes and changes us, which holds and confines
us; while in knowing, it is we who seize the world, who
appropriate it and detach ourselves from the particular,
attaining the full scope of an horizon which, ultimately, we
transcend.244
We see Straus here appreciating the ambivalence of sensation, its ability to
provide us with appearances as well as their capacity to direct and transform
our corporeal identities. Moreover, we see him anticipating Todes's
insistence that practice makes the practitioner. He even acknowledges the
disabling potential of sensation: "it is just in sensations of pain that we feel
the world attacking and invading us."245 It is this last point that gets covered
over when the perceptual field is regarded primarily as a totality of tools
or equipment to be handled, or when the synchrony of body and world is
stressed too emphatically.
Straus's theory of sensing is useful here because it brings out the
material, vital dimension of sensing that is endorsed by Merleau - Ponty but
sometimes overshadowed by his commitment to describing perception in
instrumental terms. Straus demonstrates that the body's sensibility is neither
limited to the passive reception of stimuli, nor is it the Kantian faculty
that projects a spatiotemporal grid into the sensible field. As Barbaras
says of Straus,
sensibility must be apprehended in the form of sensing,
understood as a specific mode of relation, as the
communication of the living being with a world. Sensing is
the mode according to which the living being as such is linked
with the world (and this is why it defines a common ground
between human and animal), it designates the living being's
originary mode of existence.246
Straus's view of the lived body is more naturalistic than what we usually
find in Merleau - Ponty. In his course notes on nature from the Collège de
France Merleau - Ponty does, however, adopt Straus's philosophical biology
of sensory communion.247 But it is not so much a biological conception of
human embodiment that Straus is interested in articulating. He is much
more concerned to draw a phenomenological distinction between the
affective and cognitive modes of existence, or what he calls the "pathic"
and "gnostic" modes. These modes correspond for Straus to sensing and
perceiving, respectively, and significantly are discontinuous with one another.248
Needless to say, Straus spends most of his energy unpacking the mode of
sensing, which Barbaras says "corresponds, in fact, to a mode of immediate
communication, to a sympathy with the world that does not entail any
thematic dimension."249
Although he does not explicitly draw such a definitive distinction
between sensing and perceiving, Merleau - Ponty displays a marked interest
in the immediate, affective dimension of body - world contact. When
describing the transitive form of sensation, or sensation as communion, he
refers to it, as already noted, as the "primary layer" of perception. It would
be difficult for him to acknowledge that this layer is made up of "non - 
intentional stuff," for this would contradict the doctrine that experience is
always of full - fledged things and, moreover, it would require him to give an
account of how perception, which is thoroughly intentional, can commune
with the non - intentional. Phenomenology could not provide such an
account. This may be why Merleau - Ponty holds back from drawing a sharp
distinction between sensing and perceiving. It is not always clear precisely
what their relation is for him. Is one is ontologically primary or are they
ontologically equiprimordial. One thing is clear, however: sensation is not
seen as just the inferred material of perception or the passive reception of
stimuli. It is a corporeal event undergone by the subject and constitutive of
the subject's integrity.
A purely physiological perspective cannot capture the phenomenon of
sensation because it is blind to the intentional dimension of sensing, as the
Phenomenology argues:
Sensation is intentional because I find that in the sensible
a certain rhythm of existence is put forward - abduction or
adduction - and that, following up this hint, and stealing into
the form of existence which is thus suggested to me, I am
brought into relation with an external being, whether it be in
order to open myself to it or to shut myself off from it. (PP
212 - 213/247)
We glean from this passage that "intentionality" does not just denote the
fact that all sensory experience is directed toward an object. It suggests that
sensation involves electing to be taken into or removed from a situation.
Furthermore, there is here an overlapping of intentionality and affectivity. To
sense is to be directed by an external object, to be carried or assailed by its
rhythm. This is what it means for sensation to have a "motor physiognomy"
or "living significance" (PP 209/242 - 243). If it is the case that "the world
ceaselessly assails and beleaguers subjectivity as waves wash round a wreck
on the shore" (PP 207/240), then we must regard the directives of sensation
as fundamental to the constitution and power (puissance) of subjectivity
(PP 210, 211/244, 245). We will see this theme recur in some of Levinas's
writing on sensation and aesthetics.
Sensation is able to play a part in the arrangement of our subjectivity
because sensibility is internally related to our postural schema and the
practical objectives it means to accomplish. Lingis writes that "the postural
schema is not simply a diagram of the way all the parts are equilibrated:
the body does not tend to a state of rest, but tends to maintain a state of
tension centered in a particular direction." This centering is directed by
the body's posture, "that is, the motile way the body centers and converges
all its receptor surfaces upon an objective."250 But we also cannot forget
that the body "is itself a sensible being that continually schematizes itself,
makes a gait of its movement, a gesture of its displacement, makes of each
of its here - now particular configurations or positions into a posture or
attitude maintaining itself or varying itself continuously."251 This means
that the body's rhythm remains always susceptible to the sympathetic
and antipathetic physiognomies of its environment. The way in which
environmental determinations constitute the body's power (or freedom) is
addressed in my conclusion.
For the most part Merleau - Ponty regards sensing as an amicable affair,
the mutual completion of subject and object. He speaks of it, after Straus, as
a "sympathetic relation" with objects. "Apart from the probing of my eye or
my hand, and before my body synchronizes with it, the sensible is nothing
but a vague beckoning [une sollicitation vague]" (PP 214/248). Despite the
fact that consciousness is "saturated" with the sensible, Merleau - Ponty
insists that "the sentient and the sensible do not stand in relation to each
other as two mutually external terms, and sensation is not an invasion of
the sentient by the sensible" (PP 214, 215/247 - 248).252 The tireless influx
of sensory stimuli is no affront to the subject's sensibility, but rather an
invitation to mutual animation. Sensation under this rehabilitated model
is the primary mode of contact with being, neither completely active nor
passive, and the means by which bodies originally and ordinarily respond to
one another. Since sensation, for Merleau - Ponty, is not temporally prior to
perception, we might be better off calling it the edge of perception.
Painting the Body
Exactly what Merleau - Ponty means by sensing is perhaps best illustrated
when he is writing about painting. The painter, unlike the scientist, is
someone who defers his or her manipulation of objects and in this deference
"returns to the soil of the sensible" (EM 159, 160/9, 12). Bypassing the
practical aspect of things the painter tries to capture the birth of the thing
by depicting the self - organization of its qualities and its "internal animation"
(EM 182/71). This is possible, says Merleau - Ponty, because the painter's
body is "immersed in the visible" and can be used by the visible to give
artistic expression to its many senses (EM 162/17 - 18). The painter swims in
a sensory ocean that directs his or her body's affective and motor capacities
into aesthetic expression, but only if the painter is willing to lend his or her
body to the visible. The task of the painter's body is to express the nascent
meaning of the visible. And this is precisely what painting is: it is the
"transubstantiation" (EM 162/16) of the sensible from the sensory field to
the canvas, a process which is made possible by the complicity of sensitive
subjects and sensible objects.
By situating the painter and painted on the same plane - the visible - 
Merleau - Ponty is able to collapse the distinction between art and nature,
on the one hand, and the distinction between reality and representation, on
the other. These distinctions are replaced by a general economy of sensation
and expression, which is to say that the aesthetic dimension becomes for
Merleau - Ponty the means by which the material and imaginary realms
enter into communion. He cites Cézanne in "Cézanne's Doubt:" "Art is
a personal apperception, which I embody in sensations and which I ask
the understanding to organize into a painting" (CD 13/22). To do this, the
painter must become an articulation of the sensible, the mechanics of which
are key to grasping Merleau - Ponty's non - dualist, non - representational
theory of painting.
At the heart of his theory is the idea that the painter and the painted, the
seer and the seen are made of the same flesh. In "Cézanne's Doubt" there
is a flesh of nature, whereas in "Eye and Mind" (which is contemporaneous
with The Visible and the Invisible) it is the visible/sensible that defines the
flesh. In both instances Merleau - Ponty wishes to demonstrate how subject
and object participate in a "locus of reversibility"253 which permits them to
work together in expressing the aesthetic dimension of being. In the role
of painter the subject catches onto the rhythm of the visible and allows it
to commandeer his or her body's intentions and gestures. In this way "the
visible world and the world of my motor projects are each total parts of
the same Being" (EM 162/17). It is this overlapping of seer and seen, this
chiasm of visibility, that prohibits us from positing a distinction between the
interiority of the subject and the exteriority of the world. It is what makes
painting, at least in the case of Cézanne, a non - representational act.
To understand the act of transubstantiation carried out by the painter,
the image to be rendered and the gestures required to render it must be
understood as continuous with each other. There cannot be an absolute
difference between the sensible and its artistic expression, for this would
violate Merleau - Ponty's doctrine of the flesh, which maintains that seer and
seen are but two sides of a single visibility, indeed visibility as such (EM
163/19 - 20). As Michael B. Smith writes, "Merleau - Ponty's aesthetics of
painting is grounded in a metaphysics of vision, and vision, in turn, in an
ontological description of the body subject as a seeing seenness."254 Visual
representation is not carried out by the viewer; it is "'incited' [excitée] to
think by the body" (EM 175/51). For the painter this thinking is embodied
in the painterly gesture itself. The unique contours of the visible spectacle
seize upon the painter's body and, catching the painter in a circuit of
immanence, induces the body to adopt a physiognomy that expresses the
"carnal formula" of the sensations to be painted. This entire process is made
possible by the reversibility of visibility or, more generally, the "duplicity
of sensing" which is the animating principle of both body and world (EM
164/23, translation modified). We may wonder whether this duplicity is not
mediated, on the painter's side, by reflection. But let us set this question
aside for now.
As Merleau - Ponty's aesthetics makes clear, sensing occurs neither
inside nor outside the subject. It is a liminal event, originally responsible
for the style assumed by the painter's body and, consequently, her
artistic style. "Style is what orients and shapes in view of a revelation,"
says de Waehlens.255 Before it becomes a defining trait of an artist, or
an object of reflection for the artist, it "germinates at the surface of the
artist's experience" (ILVS 53/66).256 The "exigency" of style is therefore
compromised by over - intellectualized or mannered treatments of the
sensible. Intellectualism in philosophy and objectivism/realism in art both
eliminate the contingency of experience and thereby undercut its ambiguity
with abstractions (PP 38 - 39/48 - 49).
An individual's style is a singular manner of accessing the real or
negotiating its rhythms. These rhythms are first received, as directives of
sens, by sensibility. Secondarily they become habits, gestures, signature
techniques, or clichéd expressions. The problem, for someone concerned
with portraying their immediacy, like Cézanne, is to portray these directives
as they are delivered to sensibility "to make visible how the world touches
us" (CD 19/33) - without imposing a form that is not given by the sensible
itself. The style of the painting should reflect the immanent negotiation
of subject and object that takes place at the level of "viscous, equivocal"
appearance, rather than at the level of pragmatic manipulation or cool
reflection (CD 17/30). "The painting," writes de Waehlens, "gives visible
presentation to what is not visible for the pragmatic eye, and is normally
'possessed' by the sense of contact: movement, volume, lightness, or mass,
as they obviously are presented in the work of Degas, for example."257
It is Cézanne's painting, argues Merleau - Ponty, which is exemplary in its
attempt to render for perception the "chaos of sensations" (CD 13/22). This
gives us more reason to think that Merleau - Ponty understands sensation
as something other than perception, since chaos is certainly not of a piece
with perceptual life. Cézanne's work is populated by figures which seem
to be on the verge of breaking down or losing their form; or, on their way
to metamorphosing into altogether different figures. Chaos lurks within
them. They attempt to bring to appearance what Merleau - Ponty refers to
as the "unstable, and alien" element of "natural perception" (PP 225/260).
Cézanne, he writes, "wanted to depict matter as it takes on form, the birth
of order through spontaneous organization" (CD 13/23). If this organization
is to be truly spontaneous, not mediated by the artifices of technique or
idealization, then Cézanne would have to develop a style that matches the
immediacy of his theme: the emergent sensory order, or the world as it
acquires its aesthetic contours. In short, he would need to compose the
chaos of sensation. Merleau - Ponty writes:
The outline should therefore be a result of the colors if the
world is to be given its true density. For the world is a mass
without gaps, a system of colors across which the receding
perspective, the outlines, angles, and curves are inscribed like
lines of force; the spatial structure vibrates as it is formed.
(CD 15/25 - 26)
This conception of spatiality is antithetical to Kant's in that it makes
spatial organization a product of the sensory manifold, thereby locating the
principle of animation in the matter, rather than the form, of perception.258
What allows the painter to be animated by the sensible? Like his or
her chosen subject, the painter possesses a physiognomy that can adapt
to the physiognomy or "motif" of still - life objects, landscapes, the faces of
portraiture (CD 17/29). The motif, which is "no more than a combination
of colors," provides the body of the artist with directives that initiate the
creative event, "an event which grips [the] body, and this grip circumscribes
the area of significance [sens] to which it has reference" (CD 16/27;
PP 235/272). Art is not first and foremost an act of symbolism. It is an
affective reconfiguration engendered by the body's sensibility. The artist's
body "is an object which is sensitive to all the rest, which reverberates to
all sounds, vibrates to all colors, and provides words [or lines, colors] with
their primordial significance through the way in which it receives them"
(PP 236/273).
Merleau - Ponty's discussion of Cézanne suggests a conceptual, but
perhaps not real, distinction between sensation and perception. This is
discernible in his remark that Cézanne breaks with the Impressionists by
rejecting the latter's attempts to "capture, in the painting, the very way in
which objects strike our eyes and attack our senses." This attack, he says
vaguely, occurs at the level of "instantaneous perception" and appears as
the chaos of sensations invoked above (CD 11/19). The Phenomenology
of Perception likewise implies that sensation is part of perception, and yet
distinguishable from what is ordinarily perceived - whole, medium - sized
graspable objects projected against a background. Most tellingly, he writes:
"What is called sensation is only the most rudimentary of perceptions, and,
as a modality of existence, it is no more separable than any other perception
from a background which is in fact the world" (PP 241/279). In a manner
different from Straus, Merleau - Ponty finds continuity between sensation
and perception because he wants to avoid making the latter the "form"
and the former the "matter" of experience. Because no phenomenological
distinction exists for him, no real distinction exists.
The Diachrony of Sensation
Despite his allegiance to the thesis that all consciousness is both directed
toward some object and always projected against a horizon of meaning,
Merleau - Ponty does suggest that a non - intentional form of sensing
exists. This he describes as "forever anterior to perception," a provocative
formulation that opens a distinction between sensing and perception, and
points to an originary, pre - phenomenological encounter with the sensible,
one that belongs to the prehistory of perception. When Merleau - Ponty
speaks of the anonymity of the body, it seems to me that it is this encounter
he intends to highlight, and not the general or neuter form of the body.
Moreover, his view of sensibility situates sensing on a transcendental
level, or in "a kind of original past, a past which has never been present"
(PP 242/280). It is into this original past that perception must reach in
order to apprehend what there is to perceive. Or rather, perception must
nourish itself on the sensations that make up its irretrievable past. Without
sensation, consciousness cannot survive. This is because, as Al - Saji argues,
"perception lags behind sensibility - so that consciousness and being do not
coincide, despite Merleau - Ponty's claim in the 'Temporality' chapter [of
Phenomenology of Perception]."259
There is, then, more than a conceptual distinction to be drawn between
perception and sensation. The case can be made that the pre - personality
of sensation should take ontological precedence over the personality of
perception in Merleau - Ponty's philosophy, although, as we have seen,
he usually folds these disparate experiences into the image of perception
as communion, as sentir. There is a fundamental diachrony, or non - 
coincidence, at the heart of perception that breaks up its synchronization
with the world. This diachrony is introduced by sensation. Levinas takes
up this point and uses it, like Deleuze, against Merleau - Ponty. Diachrony
is the work of sensation, the "primary layer" of sense experience "which at
once grounds perception and assures its opacity and non - coincidence," in
Al - Saji's terms.260 Upon this shifting ground lie at least three other layers
which constitute the perceptual experience. Merleau - Ponty outlines these in
a discussion of hearing.
The different layers of sound are only identifiable once the unified
experience of listening, say, to a piece of music is analyzed by reflection.
After making this phenomenological point Merleau - Ponty ventures to
speculate about the multidimensional sensation of sound itself: "there is
an objective sound which reverberates outside me in the instrument, an
atmospheric sound which is between the object and my body, a sound which
vibrates in me 'as if I had become the flute or the clock'; and, finally, a last
stage in which the acoustic element disappears and becomes the highly
precise experience of a change permeating my whole body" (PP 227/263).
Merleau - Ponty here describes the liminal nature of sensation - it "is between
the object and my body" - as well as its capacity to directly reconfigure the
body. This reconfiguration might manifest itself in dance, which is arguably
the most obvious example of "a change permeating my whole body" or the
body communing with its auditory environment. Given Merleau - Ponty's
description, however, we should hesitate to posit dance as a primary or
"instantaneous" reconfiguration. What comes first is the "objective sound
which reverberates outside me in the instrument." Physically, a sound
wave. This reverberation reaches us in a highly complex situation, against
a background of noise and silence, and in principle could drown out this
background by reaching an oppressively loud volume. That is, the sound is
potentially hostile to the body and the body's potential communion with
the aural environment. This potential resides in the fact that sensation's
liminality places it at the threshold of the world as perceived. Sensation
reverberates whether anyone is there to perceive it or not; it is not beholden
to the mechanics of perception.
On average we do not experience the pure reverberation of an
instrument outside of an aural context, and yet Merleau - Ponty says that
this objective sound occurs in the instrument rather than in our ears.
This compels us to think of our perception of sound as delayed. Our ears
arrive late to the event of sound. This is because we must "learn to perceive
according to Merleau - Ponty," says Al - Saji.261 The world possesses rhythms
that solicit synchronization from our bodies; it challenges us with dissonant
rhythms; it meets our bodies' groping with inconvenient designs and
incapacitating sounds. Some of these we can catch onto, others not. Our
sensory environment is not always ergonomically advantageous: it contains
sensations that are alien and unstable, but whose meaning nevertheless
saturates us (PP 214, 215/248, 249). Perception "converts the elements of
the sensory encounter into recognizable and representable identities" and
effects a "transformation of the inherent ambiguity and intertwining of the
sensory - a transformation that the sensory suggests but as a result of which
it comes to be overlaid and forgotten qua sensory life."262 On this reading,
sensory life becomes the virtual dimension of perceptual life.
Always beyond the reach of perception, but nevertheless serving as the
"unreflective fund" that provides it with phenomenal content, the sensory
life of the body reveals itself as the anonymous, objective ground of any
actual perception (PP 242/280). In Al - Saji's words,
Perception may be a prospective actualization, but it is
experienced as the discovery of what was always already
there. It is this anteriority that makes objects appear real to
us - our experience of their presence being given through
their inexhaustibility and alterity. This inexhaustibility is due
to the coexistence and non - coincidence of rhythms in sensory
life, a life which at once constitutes the ground of perceptual
experience while being irreducible to perceptual form. What
allows the experience of anteriority to be more than an illusion
for Merleau - Ponty is that it relies on, and holds the trace of, a
more original delay - that of sensory life as forever past with
respect to perception.263
It is not so much that Merleau - Ponty subscribes to the view that there is an
anonymous body subtending the historically and culturally inscribed body,
but that he affirms a carnal sensibility whose resources cannot be exhausted
by an individual's consciousness or singular perceptual experience.
Sensibility is basic to the pre - personal identity of the body and constitutive
of an "unconscious" dimension of subjectivity. Put otherwise, only a
portion of what the lived body senses makes its way into perception, and
even less becomes the object of reflection. When Merleau - Ponty writes that
"Perception is always in the mode of the impersonal 'One'," we must take
this to mean that perception is at every moment the renewal of the synthetic
act which reaches into the past while projecting into the future in its attempt
to fix the object of perception before us.264 This entails that perception is
an "ever - recurrent failure" [échec perpétuel] to hold onto what is given in
sensation (PP 240/277).
Perception apprehends a phenomenal field which is "never presented in
any other way than integrated into a configuration and already 'patterned'
['mise en forme']" (PP 159/186). Following Gestalt principles Merleau - Ponty
holds that no sense experience happens outside of the horizon subtended
by my personal intentional arc and the historical/cultural horizon in which
I am always situated. This phenomenal field, however, cannot be identical
to the field engaged immediately by the senses, for the latter is marked by a
singularity which resists entry into the intentional horizon. Sensibility, then,
remains bound to a pre - personal field wherein "each sensation, being strictly
speaking, the first, last and only one of its kind, is a birth and a death" of the
body that receives it. Moreover,
the subject who experiences it begins and ends with it, and
as he can neither precede nor survive himself, sensation
necessarily appears to itself in a setting of generality, its origin
anterior to myself, it arises from sensibility which has preceded
it and which will outlive it, just as my birth and death
belong to a natality and a mortality which are anonymous.
(PP 216/250)
The carnality of the subject inhabits two distinct spheres, the practical - 
personal, on the one hand, and the sensible - impersonal, on the other. They
never operate in isolation from each other, and this fact calls into question
the primacy of perception and the primacy of body - world synchrony.
The tension between the personal and impersonal body is palpable in
Merleau - Ponty's reluctance to disengage sensation from perception and
allow the former to devolve into the formless data of the empiricists or the
pure sensory manifold of Kant. This is why sensation appears sometimes as
a rudimentary form of perception (thus guaranteeing perception's inherent
form) and at other times as the transcendental condition of perception
(which ensures Merleau - Ponty's anti - idealist credentials). In the last
analysis Merleau - Ponty wants to maintain the primacy of perception while
at the same time championing the immediacy of sensing which is clearly
endorsed in his analysis of Cézanne's painting and its ability to express
the dialogue of physiognomies that is the body - world relation. If there is a
truly anonymous and pre - perceptual form of sensing acknowledged in the
Phenomenology, then there is reason to suggest that the sensations undergone
by the body's organs point to a transcendental field that is better depicted
by the Impressionists, however speculative or non - phenomenological their
aesthetic might be.
Merleau - Ponty tells us that Cézanne breaks with the Impressionists over
their impossible desire to portray how objects strike our senses (CD 11 - 
14/19 - 23). The Impressionists are wont to paint what would be the pure a
priori of perception, that is, sensation, whereas Cézanne's painting exhibits
sensible nature as it emerges into an organized form. On this reading, the
Impressionists would be the painters of a "non - thetic, pre - objective, and
pre - conscious experience" that depicts "sensation as a private phenomenon"
(PP 242/279). It is this private sphere that is most problematic from
the perspective of a perception which is, according to "The Primacy of
Perception," fundamentally intersubjective (PrP 17 - 18, 26 - 27/52, 70 - 71). As
Merleau - Ponty writes in "The Philosopher and His Shadow:"
The fact is that sensible being, which is announced to me in
my most strictly private life, summons up within that life all
other corporeality. It is the being which reaches me in my most
secret parts, but which I also reach in its brute or untamed
state, in an absolute of presence which holds the secret of the
world, others, and what is true. (Shadow 171/215)
Sensation, then, becomes problematic because it harbors a form of
solipsism, a view which Merleau - Ponty ardently resists. The touch
of sensation opens the body to the world of objects, others, and
communication. But in itself it cannot be accessed, represented, or
articulated. The problem of solipsism raised by the "aesthesiological" is
resolvable only when it is assimilated to perception, for perception, writes
Merleau - Ponty, "is never a matter of anything but co - perception. I see
that this man over there sees, as I touch my left hand while it is touching
my right" (Shadow 170/215). As he says elsewhere, perception is always
already reversible. If there is solipsism, then it must be wrested from the
intersubjective sphere and therefore no solipsism at all.
Merleau - Ponty's entire critique of sensation derives from his observation
that we do not really encounter much of what the classical empiricists and
rationalists say we do. For the most part he is right: we do not perceive
sense impressions or sense data. We perceive things. Against classical
theory he maintains that we only arrive at the imperceptible through
analysis, which must necessarily begin with the perceptible. This may be
true phenomenologically, but it does not foreclose the possibility that,
ontologically speaking, perception is a derivative experience, subtended by a
more rudimentary experience of embodiment. Merleau - Ponty acknowledges
the existence of imperceptible encounters with things, which is why I think
the realist strand of his analysis of sensing supports the thesis - even if he
does not advance it himself - that perception derives from the transitive
form of sensation. When he speaks of the sound reverberating in the
instrument before it reaches the ears of the listener, he acknowledges the
primacy of an aesthetic atmosphere that is anterior to perception. Here
resides the anonymous sensory experience that saturates our bodies and
cannot be recuperated by the subject - object dialogue. The Visible and the
Invisible's concept of flesh develops this anonymous sensibility into a general
theory of being.
Reversible Bodies
The flesh (la chair) radicalizes insights from the Phenomenology by replacing
the latter's residual subject - object dualism with a monistic account of the
sensible. In the early text our bodies and the bodies of others (human
and nonhuman) are said only to achieve full expression through the co - 
constitutive dialogue of perception. This dialogue is made possible, explains
The Visible and the Invisible, because both subject and object belong to a
common "element," the sensible as such, or the flesh. It is this element that
brings together while at the same time separating the poles of perception:
"the thickness of flesh between seer and the thing is constitutive for the
thing of its visibility as for the seer of his corporeity" (VI 135/178). The
separation of bodies, then, is derivative of the fundamental "narcissism"
at the heart of the sensible. In The Visible and the Invisible it is no longer
perception that gives birth to discrete objects, but the so - called dehiscence
(écart) of the flesh. Dehiscence is the name Merleau - Ponty uses to describe
the fission of the sensible into sentient body and sensible world; it denotes
the coiling back or enfolding of being performed in sensing:
[The flesh] is the coiling over of the visible upon the seeing
body, of the tangible upon the touching body, which is attested
in particular when the body sees itself, touches itself seeing
and touching the things, such that, simultaneously, as tangible
it descends among them, as touching it dominates them all
and draws this relationship and even this double relationship
from itself, by dehiscence or fission of its own mass. (VI
146/191 - 192)
At bottom it is the dehiscence of flesh that constitutes my body as an
individual that senses and gains it the necessary distance from what is
perceived (VI 140/185). Since individuation results from the separation
(écart) of the flesh, understood as a single element, it entails a kind of
reversibility between bodies. At the crossing where reversibility occurs,
"perception is born" (VI 154/202).
By "reversible" Merleau - Ponty means that at any moment the one who
sees can become the one seen, or the one who touches can become the
touched. The possibility of a passive body becoming active or an active body
becoming passive is immanent to embodiment as such. He holds that the
reversibility of the sensible is analogous to what happens when I touch my
left hand with my right. This is the narcissistic element of the flesh: "the seer
and the visible reciprocate one another and we no longer know which sees
and which is seen" (VI 139/183). Sensing is here attributed not to individual
subjects who exist apart from their worlds, but to the flesh as a substance
that divides itself into sensible and sentient beings. This is the primary
dualism of The Visible and the Invisible, it seems to me. The Phenomenology's
anthropocentric dualism has been mitigated here, but at the same time
a new dualism, embedded in the rhetoric of "chiasmus," arises. While
intended as a figure that could overcome the Phenomenology's undesirable
dualism (as identified by its author), the chiasmus injects a new duality into
the heart of Merleau - Ponty's monism of the flesh. Consequently, the figure
of the chiasmus "does not solve anything, because in order to work, both
terms [subject and object, seer and seen] must be preserved even as they are
cancelled at another level."265 The sensible - sentient chiasmus is what signals
the dualism troubling - or short - circuiting, however you want to see it - the
monistic ontology of The Visible and the Invisible.
What remains unclear is how the flesh becomes sentient in the first place,
why some beings achieve sentience while others remain merely sensible.
"For if the body is a thing among things, it is so in a stronger and deeper
sense than they," Merleau - Ponty asserts (VI 137/181). One way to overcome
the sensing - sensed dualism is by broadening the scope of sentience to
include any entity that can receive sensory stimulation. If stimulation is
regarded as an objective event, and is not confined to the interior life of
humans or other living animals, then we can begin to speak of the sensations
experienced by inanimate objects. This is one way to abolish The Visible
and the Invisible's dualistic conception of the sensible, but one which also
commits us to a new, perhaps Whiteheadian, metaphysics of sensation.
Merleau - Ponty explicitly points out that the presumed reversibility
of sensible and sentient is always imminent, but never accomplished (VI
147/194). In other words, my left and right hands cannot both be touching
each other at the same time; one of the pair must play the role of passive
object while the other actively senses it. More generally, sentient/subjective
and sensible/objective never fully synchronize because reversibility has an
asynchronous core. It must be stressed that the impossible coincidence at
the center of reversibility is, in part, a product of the analogy of self - touching
chosen by Merleau - Ponty. The asynchrony of reversibility is therefore a
consequence of his analogy to self - reflexive behavior and does not seem to
apply to what we typically consider an intercorporeal relation. Nor does it
apply universally to sensing or tactility.266
What if the always deferred synchrony of reversibility is not like
attempting to catch sight of one's own shadow by quickly turning around?
Consider how smelling, tasting, and hearing do not bear the kind of
symmetry necessary for reversibility. Sure, I can be smeller or smelled, but
the scent that invades my nose is in no position to take in my scent. The
same could be said of a taste or sound. These sensations are more invasive
than the tactile and give us a good idea of the basically irreversible or
dissymmetrical nature of sensing. Something like a handshake, by contrast,
appears to offer a better analogy for reversibility.267 But even the handshake
proves irreversible - perhaps it is exemplarily irreversible - since the strength
and delicacy of the persons shaking will most likely be disproportionate, a
matter of unequal force. This is why Beata Stawarska argues, rightly I think,
that the concept of flesh performs a "massive reduction of the specifically
intersubjective experience of the body manifest in an encounter with another
embodied person to the corporeal dynamic operative within the body
proper."268 Self - touching offers us a helpful image of reflection, but not
entirely an accurate account of the intercorporeal encounter.
In her work on Merleau - Ponty and political philosophy Diana Coole
responds to Merleau - Ponty's critics, chiefly Levinas, who claim that the
metaphor of the handshake is ethically defective because it privileges
continuity over discontinuity, sameness over difference. She writes,
"Merleau - Ponty is surely using the handshake to advance an ontological
rather than an ethical claim and he does so in order to disclose the
very possibility of ethical (and political) relations."269 If Coole is right,
and Levinas's charge holds, then Merleau - Ponty has misread a basic
(ontological) difference at the heart of intercorporeity. But Merleau - Ponty
does not see the handshake as an event of congruity, but one of écart, or
separation, and so Levinas's criticism falters.270 Merleau - Ponty retains the
language of reversibility and is thereby left to account for the discontinuous
continuity between the bodies exchanging the handshake. Is this continuity
merely phenomenal? If not, what is the metaphysical mechanism of its écart?
His life cut short, Merleau - Ponty never had time to provide an adequate
reply to these questions.
The experience of the handshake illustrates how intercorporeal touching
is fundamentally different from self - touching. The handshake exhibits
an exchange of sensations that is not present in the case of self - touching.
When I shift my attention and convert my touched hand into the hand
doing the touching, as in the case of self - touching, there is no exchange
of sensation, but rather a shift in attention, a reversal of intentionality. As
Stawarska writes, "What distinguishes the intercorporeal relation from
the intracorporeal one is that the passivity of my hand touched by the
other - unlike the passivity of my hand that I touch - cannot reverse into
an activity (of touching) for me, even though I can respond to the other
touching me by touching them in turn."271 The idea that two bodies stand
in a relation of reversibility assumes that any passive relation is potentially
convertible into an active relation, even if this reversal is impossible, as in
cases of domination, oppression, torture, or murder.272 The supposition
of reversibility effectively neglects a fundamental feature of violence:
the inequality of the sensations exchanged. This is precisely what makes
intercorporeity irreversible.
The Reality of Violence
Rewriting the Cartesian cogito, Merleau - Ponty argues that the subject
is an "I can" ["je peux"] before it is an "I think" (PP 137/160). But this
formulation is only partially true. Is the subject not equally an "I can't,"
a perpetually constrained actor whose abilities cannot be privileged over
its inabilities? The body's orientation is always a mixture of abilities and
disabilities, and some orientations, as Ahmed and Fanon suggest, are more
accommodating than others. Ahmed writes:
If classical phenomenology is about "motility," expressed
in the hopefulness of the utterance "I can," Fanon's
phenomenology of the black body would be better described
in terms of the bodily and social experience of restriction,
uncertainty and blockage, or perhaps even in terms of the
despair of the utterance "I cannot." ... To be black in "the
white world" is to turn back towards itself, to become an
object, which means not only not being extended by the
contours of the world, but being diminished as an effect of the
bodily extensions of others.273
Nowhere is corporeal constraint more evident than in the threatened or
disabled body. To say nothing, of course, of the corpse. If the subject,
on Merleau - Ponty's model, is to be identified with the body in all of its
materiality (not just the body insofar as it is animated by an intentional
consciousness or mind, that is, the lived body), then each of the body's
manifestations must be taken into consideration when embodied subjectivity
is in question. Furthermore, the intercorporeal relation cannot just be the
site where perception is born. It must also serve as the site where perception
disintegrates or vanishes altogether.
Merleau - Ponty does not completely neglect the reality of violence,
however. Coole has shown that he acknowledges its reality in his political
studies, refusing to reduce it to a metaphor. As she writes, "His emphasis
on the body brings home the vulnerability and mortality of the flesh. His
actors find themselves suspended between the violence of the visceral
and the potential violence of the structural, where even peaceful aims can
have violent repercussions."274 It is true that he recognizes the inherent
vulnerability of the body in the face of the other. Not unlike Sartre, who
theorizes the gaze of the other as an instrument of objectification or seizure,
Merleau - Ponty considers how the presence of the other entails a conflict of
interpretations where the truth of the object is at stake, where the body's
hold on the world is contested by others (PrP 18/53). Just like me, the other
fixes his or her grip on objects and appropriates them in the system of holds
that make up his or her own practical horizon. My own body, too, can be
seized by perception, as Sartre, Fanon, Yancy and others have demonstrated.
Merleau - Ponty speaks of a "passive vision ... as in the case of a dazzling
light," wherein perception is rendered incapable of making sense of what
is seen (PP 315/364). He recognizes the impact of pain and fatigue on our
capacity for action (PP 441/504; SB 189/204). Ultimately, he defines the
freedom of the body negatively as a "tolerance" of institutional and physical
forces, thus eschewing the ideal of a pure subject who remains invulnerable
to material forces (PP 454/518). What Merleau - Ponty does not provide us
with is an ontological explanation for how real violence is possible, how the
reversibility of the flesh is suspended, violated, or overridden. Unfortunately,
it is not enough just to emphasize that subjectivity is embodied or that pain
occurs in fact.
In order accurately to portray intercorporeal encounters, and the violent
in particular, a robust notion of irreversibility or alterity must be provided.
This does not mean that reciprocity between bodies should be deemed
impossible (which is implied in Levinas's ontology, as we will see in the
next chapter). What we need is a model that acknowledges the distance
between bodies, but also enables them to exchange a common currency
and participate in a common experiential economy. I suggest we consider
sensation as providing the currency and the aesthetic as the common
economy. To be fair, I think Merleau - Ponty notices, but does not pursue,
this possibility. It is present in his recognition of sensation as the past that
never presents itself to perception; it is there in his acknowledgement of the
affective quality of sensing; and it is implied in his ontology of the flesh (PP
53/65). These moments of divergence and diachrony are where Merleau - 
Ponty troubles the happy alliance of body and world while simultaneously
recognizing an element shared by embodied beings. The dehiscence of
the flesh, or what Hass calls the "constitutive difference in the fabric of
experience," offers another moment of divergence.275 But the mechanics of
the involution of the sensible - how the flesh generates individual bodies - 
remains a metaphysical mystery for phenomenology. In Phenomenology of
Perception it is temporality that drives the dehiscence of being, but time is
conceived there anthropocentrically as "born of my relation with things"
(PP 412, 426/471, 487, translation modified). Merleau - Ponty's later
philosophy does not provide us with a non - anthropocentric conception of
time or a metaphysical explanation of dehiscence or an adequate account
of how bodies individuate themselves from the singular flesh of being, and
eventually get destroyed.276 This is not a failure of Merleau - Ponty, but work
he left for us to accomplish.
The gap (is it real or apparent?) between entities never reaches closure;
reversibility is always deferred. Nevertheless, Merleau - Ponty's analyses
most often suggest the possibility of convergence: the subject is always on
the way to a better understanding of its object; the left hand is always on
the verge of touching instead of being touched; perception is perpetually
on its way to a maximally clear expression.277 His faith in reversibility, once
again, effectively misrepresents the intercorporeal relation by attenuating the
volatility introduced by the transcendence of the other qua sensible. Levinas
would say that Merleau - Ponty's ontology ultimately reduces the other to the
same and that reversibility denotes a relation whose "terms are indifferently
read from left to right and from right to left" and which has been reduced to
a "simple correlation" (TI 35/5).
Levinas's charge is a bit hyperbolic in the case of Merleau - Ponty since
the latter's treatment of intersubjectivity cannot be reduced to a simple
self - other duality and, indeed, actively strives to overcome such a reduction.
He does, however, tend to subordinate what Levinas calls the "enigma of
sensation - feeling [l'énigme sensation - sentiment]" to the competent grasp
[prise] of perception.278 As Merleau - Ponty writes,
my body, as the system of holds on the world, founds the
unity of the objects which I perceive, in the same way the
body of the other ... tears itself away from being one of my
phenomena, offers me the task of true communication, and
confers on my objects the new dimension of intersubjective
being or, in other words, of objectivity. (PrP 18/53)
The world is not first what eludes my grasp, but what offers me things to
grab; the other is not what threatens my subjectivity, but what offers to
communicate with me. Others and objects offer possibilities for being and
doing because they belong to the phenomenal field open before me and
essentially synchronized with my body's practical horizon. Between seeing
body and seen other there is "an intimacy as close as between the sea and
the strand" (VI 130 - 131/173).279
The ideal of reversibility fails to notice that sensation, even in Merleau - 
Ponty's own terms, is precisely what cannot become phenomenal if
phenomenality is the mode of expression proper to perception. Sensation
remains forever out of step with the unfolding of perception; it is the dark
side of visibility and ideality, what gives birth to perception and, perhaps,
what accounts for its disintegration.
Carnal Sensibility
If we wish to talk about the centrality of the body, then it is necessary to
attend to every aspect of its environmental sensitivity, the physiological as
well as the phenomenal, insofar as this sensitivity gives rise to the corporeal
structures that inform the contours of our perceptual and practical
engagements. A neglect of the autonomy of sensation, by which I mean the
sensible events which take place below the level of intentional consciousness
and which remain "unstable, and alien,"280 can only hinder a philosophy that
seeks to overcome the conceit of an idealism which refuses to recognize the
corporeal dimension of subjectivity, freedom, and responsibility. Regardless
of whether sensation is a viable phenomenological concept, it is necessary
to provide a complete picture of embodiment. And we risk misconception
when we overemphasize the constitutive activity of the subject, or when we
downplay its susceptibility, incompetence, disintegration, and mechanical or
autonomic responses.281
Even though his philosophy of the body is sensitive to the constitutive
function of the aesthetic dimension, Merleau - Ponty's privileging of
perception entails a misrepresentation of how the body's identity is informed
and sculpted by its aesthetic environment. He endorses the dialogical
notion of aesthetic identity offered by Cézanne. Though instructive, this
view does not do justice to the irreversibility of sensation. The pixelated
images of the Impressionists, as already suggested, may offer us a better
representation. Impressionism gives something like a snapshot of sensation;
it captures the sensory event which, "strictly speaking," is "the first, last and
only one of its kind, is a birth and death." These images ring false from a
phenomenological perspective, but only because phenomenology distrusts
and eschews speculation, preferring to derive its ontology from what is given
to experience. For a philosopher like Merleau - Ponty and unlike, say, Hume
the chaos of sensation can only be hypothesized from the more coherent
world of perception. This is why he favors Cézanne over the Impressionists.
But once again, Cézanne is a painter of reversibility, of sensing taken as an
amicable dialogue. He jettisons the immediacy of sensation in favor of the
world figured, or at least figurable.
One of the problems left here is to theorize the discontinuity between
bodies without succumbing to the allure of absolute transcendence, as
Levinas does, and without casting intercorporeity as purely continuous.
To be sure, failure to concede the continuity or immanence of the
intercorporeal realm results in a failure to see that sensory demands are
communicated directly to the subject by the aesthetic environment. An
account of the environment's immanent aesthetic directives is crucial to
understanding the emergence of the body's competence and integrity. This is
because there are provocations issued by the environment that the body must
respond to in order to effectively adapt, ways in which the body is determined
by its sensory milieu. These determinants are therefore more than optional
solicitations: they are imperatives.282 Sometimes these provocations are
pleasurable, sometimes they are painful or even excruciating. They can end
in bodily obliteration, which is an extreme form of incompetence but a
form of responsiveness nonetheless. Merleau - Ponty appreciates this to some
degree, but he consistently downplays the imperceptible quality of sensation,
its objective power, and as a result pathologizes the vulnerability of the body.
The tension between sensation and perception, which is clearly evinced in
excessive or limit situations that threaten the coherence of perception and
the organizational capacity of the body's schemata, is passed over in favor of
a more sympathetic reciprocity or the ideal of "maximum clarity"/"optimum
balance" in perception (PP 318/367).283
Merleau - Ponty's philosophy has the virtue of being grounded in the
carnality of existence, and it does so without submitting to physicalism.
Indeed, the depth of his phenomenological descriptions are borne of
the concrete practices of the self as it engages other bodies, both human
and nonhuman. The ontogenetic narrative Merleau - Ponty tells about the
subject's embodiment, which is first and foremost a story of the body's
anonymity and passivity, is grounded in the sensitivity of the body, or what
we could call its carnal sensibility. This sensibility is at work in the sensuous
communion of subject and object in Phenomenology of Perception; it is at
the heart of The Visible and the Invisible's notions of flesh, chiasm, and écart;
and it is crucial to the psychogenesis of the child in "The Child's Relations
with Others" as well as his analyses of Cézanne's theory of painting. In
short, there is for me an inscrutable ambivalence at the heart of Merleau - 
Ponty's work. The problem we are left with is how to disengage the idea of
carnal sensibility, which anonymously produces the body's organizational
capacity, from the intentional structure of perception and the synchronic
ontology of the flesh. Only after the diachrony of sensibility is disengaged
from perception can we understand both the passivity of the body and its
non - intentional responsiveness to sensations, that is, its obedience to the
immanent directives embedded in the aesthetic environment.
Traces of Ambiguity
Reading Merleau - Ponty it is easy to get the impression that the body
operates as a tool or prosthesis of consciousness, rather than a substitute
for the Cartesian ego. This is because he sometimes speaks of perception
and consciousness as though they were not functions of the body:
"Consciousness is being - towards - the - thing through the intermediary of
the body" (PP 138 - 139/161). In his more radical formulations we are
our bodies, nothing more. Establishing a non - reductive version of this
identification of self and body is the most promising prospect of working
through Merleau - Ponty's ontology.
To overcome modern dualism it is necessary that Merleau - Ponty
collapse consciousness and body. If we are to avoid conceiving the body as
merely a vessel for the mind or consciousness or perception, there cannot
be any mysterious elements of subjectivity or suspicious unbridgeable gaps
between subject and world. This means emptying absolute transcendence
from ontology, something Merleau - Ponty only begins to accomplish in
his unfinished later work. The challenge is formulated by Deleuze in Pure
Immanence when he says that "consciousness becomes a fact only when a
subject is produced at the same time as its object, both being outside the
field and appearing as 'transcendents'."284 In other words, a truly immanent
ontology, like the one promised by the primacy of perception thesis or the
ontology of the flesh, has to embrace an impersonal transcendental field,
one free from the syntheses of a subject, the configuration of intentionality,
and the prejudice of correlationism.
Merleau - Ponty's treatment of sensing in Phenomenology of Perception
is the most promising concept upon which to develop an immanent
conception of embodiment. Here we find a concept of sensibility that
reverses the formal Kantian view of the subject's aesthetic faculty. Merleau - 
Ponty provides us with the means to envision sensibility as a kind of
material transcendental. Recasting the continuities and discontinuities of
the intercorporeal relation in terms of sensations and affects, rather than
perception and flesh, recasts many of the problems raised by Merleau - 
Ponty's carnal ontology. Indeed, his reversibility thesis becomes more
persuasive when we distinguish the sensible and perceptual life of the
body, then restrict reversibility to the level of perception while assigning an
irreducible alterity (irreversibility) to sensing.
The relation between perception and sensation has a double character.
On the one hand, these two activities are coextensive; on the other
hand, perception is the product of sensation, the latter serving as the
"rudimentary" content of the former (PP 241/279). A tension between the
impersonal, imperceptible layer of experience (sensation) and the personal,
intentional (perception) arises at this point. If perception is given primacy
in this tension, then experience must be always regarded as organized by
the telos of our intentional arc. By the same token, if sensation is cast as
the most basic form of perception, it can only appear as phenomenal and,
in some sense, coordinated by the subject - object dialogue. But certainly
there are sensations received by the body (what Leibniz would call petites
perceptions)285 that are never elevated to the level of consciousness and
remain forever at the level of proprioceptive information.286 Merleau - Ponty
holds that every perception has something anonymous about it, and that
this is linked to the body's habits and schemata as well its "unsophisticated"
(read: sensory) life (PP 238/275). Therefore, to delimit the sensory life
of the body and see how it functions transcendentally for perception, it
is necessary to remain open to speculation about the aesthetic life of the
"impersonal 'One'." This is the lesson that emerges when we inhabit the
ambiguity surrounding Merleau - Ponty's work on sensibility.
Chapter 4
Sensibility, Susceptibility, and the Genesis of Individuals
Even when unformed, or deformed, by knowing, sensible
intuition can revert to its own meaning.
Levinas, Otherwise than Being
Levinas's philosophy of the body contains an explicit commitment to
the primacy of sensation, one that remains only implicit in Merleau - 
Ponty. Levinas's analyses of embodiment display a marked interest in
the materiality of the subject. This is most evident in his remarks about
sensation and the affective life of the self (the "I"), as well as in his critique
of intentionality and his occasional criticism of phenomenological method.
In his early texts Existence and Existents, Time and the Other, and Totality
and Infinity this materialism appears through an ontogenetic account of the
emergence of subjectivity; later, in Otherwise than Being, it is through novel
accounts of sensibility and vulnerability that we find Levinas defending
a materialist ontology. It is in the later work that Levinas's emphasis on
the vulnerability of the body - that is, its susceptibility to wounding or its
openness to the outside - goes too far in its appreciation of the reality of
violence. The enabling aspects of the body - world relation are overshadowed
by the exigency of violence that Levinas sees as basic to intersubjectivity.
This chapter will not rehearse the drama of the same and the Other
Sensibility, Susceptibility, and the Genesis of Individuals 145
(autrui)287 which dominates Levinas's ethics. It will instead reinscribe
Levinas's phenomenology into the discourse of ontology and focus on the
significance of sensation in his account of subjectivity. This is admittedly
an heretical reading of Levinas, but one that is not forced upon him.
The purpose of this reading is to supplement Merleau - Ponty's treatment
of sensation, and to assemble from their texts an account of embodied
subjectivity that is present in neither thinker considered independently
of the other.
Corporeal Ontology
Levinas is not usually the first person invoked when the philosophy of the
body is up for discussion. His exploration of embodiment is not as broad
as Merleau - Ponty's; it is certainly less direct. To unpack Levinas's corporeal
ontology the theme must be approached obliquely through his fascinating
treatment of concepts like sensibility, alimentation, fecundity, living from,
and enjoyment. This constellation of concepts, along with some others,
represents Levinas's acute concern with affectivity as an individuating
phenomenon. The same goes for sensation: with more candor than
Merleau - Ponty, Levinas affirms sensation as basic to embodiment and the
constitution of subjectivity. He goes further than Merleau - Ponty in pursuing
sensation as a transcendental phenomenon. His analyses of sensation and
sensibility try to fully appreciate the primacy of sensation and, in particular,
its materiality.288
Claiming that Levinas is engaged in ontology is contentious among
commentators because so much of the force of his philosophy operates as
an evasion of ontology. In general he regards the desire for systematicity in
ontology as inherently violent toward beings in their singularity. Ontology,
in this respect, is Procrustean. Instead of approaching beings as unique
individuals, ontology subsumes, or "totalizes" their uniqueness under a
general system, thus reducing their otherness. To avoid violence of this
kind Levinas consistently argues that ethics, rather than ontology, is
first philosophy. In one sense this means that every individual maintains
a peaceful, responsible, and heteronomous relation to the Other, one
which is prior to any representation or understanding of him or her.
Civil discourse among individuals forms the basis of the community
of knowers, and therefore is the condition of possibility of any theory
of being or epistemology (TI 72 - 77/44 - 49).289 A certain intersubjective
stability, a responsiveness to and responsibility for the other, is necessary
for epistemological and ontological reflection to occur. So, ethics first,
then ontology.
Levinas's critique of ontology, Heidegger's ontology in particular, often
conflates "ontology" with "knowledge of Being" in order to argue for the
priority of ethics. This conflation reduces being, or existence in general,
to what can be known about being. This is a familiar move in the Levinas
literature.290 It is symptomatic of the view that ontology cannot get outside
the subject - object correlation, and therefore cannot accommodate the
alterity (the Other) that transcends the correlation. Only metaphysics of the
Levinasian variety can prepare such accommodation because Levinasian
metaphysics is in actuality an ethics dedicated to hospitality toward the
Other, not a theory of what exists or the basic structure of reality. It resists
absolutely any attempt to subordinate the singularity of the Other to the
generality of Being. He writes in Totality and Infinity about how ontology
"reduces the other to the same" by making the Other appear through a
"third term, a neutral term, which is itself not a being" (TI 42/12). This
third term, through which the "shock of the encounter of the same with
the other is deadened" is the theory of being, or ontology understood as a
system of knowledge of beings.
Prior to any conceptualization of the Other, Levinas argues, is the
"calling into question of my spontaneity by the presence of the Other," or
ethics (TI 43/13). But is not this calling into question an event that requires
an understanding of its conditions and terms? That is, is it not necessary for
us to comprehend the constitution of the subject and the Other in order to
realize the force of ethics? Ontology seems to come before ethics. There is
a sense, however, in which neither enjoys priority, in which aesthetics that is
first philosophy. This thesis, which was suggested in previous chapters, will be
deepened here and in the remaining chapters.
If Heidegger's ontology represents a form of correlationism - it
would seem that this is how Levinas understands it, although the point
is contentious - then Levinasian metaphysics challenges correlationism
in the name of an infinity which exceeds the subject - object relation. The
challenge operates as a response to what Levinas perceives as the inability
of Heideggerian ontology to accommodate otherness, infinity, alterity - that
is, to think beyond being. This may not be a failure of ontology in general,
however, but a failure only of correlationist ontology. An ontology that
surpasses correlationism might not meet the usual Levinasian criticism.
Indeed, what Levinas provides, I think, is a non - correlationist ontology,
although he is reluctant to call it ontology for fear that his work will be read
too closely to Heidegger's. Putting this worry aside, we may surmise that
ontology is not intrinsically reductive, violent, or unethical.
Levinas's critique of ontology is strongest, I think, when it is seen as an
internal critique of correlationist (including phenomenological) ontology,
rather than as a wholesale rejection of ontology. Moreover, it seems that
Levinas's position would be strengthened if he allowed that what he calls
ethics is actually grounded in ontology. On this reading our understanding
of ourselves, others, and intersubjectivity would be seen as equiprimordial
with (if not prior to) ethical responsibility.291 The ontological reading of
Levinas gains traction, I would argue, when we consider that it is not
possible to see what is "called into question" by the Other until we have
laid bare the constitution of the egocentric subject, or the individual who
cultivates a life of enjoyment and material security.
A grasp of the ontology informing Levinas's account of the subject is
essential for contrasting Levinasian and Kantian ethics.292 It is through a
rejection of the Kantian subject as immaterial agent that Levinas is able to
make his case for the eminent vulnerability of the subject and, consequently,
the ethical responsibility entailed by that vulnerability. Levinas argues in
Existence and Existents that the Kantian subject, the transcendental ego,
always stands at a safe distance from the effects of the world. As that which
allows things to appear and be apprehended by cognition, but which does
not act in the world, the Kantian ego presents "a way of relating to events
while still being able to not be caught up in them. To be a [Kantian] subject
is to be a power of unending withdrawal, an ability always to find oneself
behind what happens to one" (EE 42/77). The Levinasian subject, by
contrast, is caught up in, produced as an "ontological event" by the world.
Indeed, the entirety of Existence and Existents can be read as the tale of the
subject's emergence from bare existence, the assumption or actualization of
a "position" out of what Levinas calls the "there is" - the il y a (EE 66 - 67,
88/120, 149; TI 175/149). This positioning is the material substantialization,
or "separation," of the subject from anonymous existence, a process which
is recounted in Totality and Infinity in terms of the body which enjoys,
nourishes, and "lives from" (vivre de) the surrounding world:
Enjoyment accomplishes the atheist separation: it deformalizes
the notion of separation, which is not a cleavage made in
the abstract, but the existence at home with itself as an
autochthonous I. The soul ... dwells in what is not itself, but
it acquires its own identity by this dwelling in the "other." (TI
115/88, italics added)
At bottom it is the invulnerability of the Kantian subject in the face of
external affection, which is to say, the untraversable distance separating
subject and world, that Levinas objects to.293 It is in this context that Levinas
foregrounds the affectivity, and ultimately the a priori vulnerability, of
the subject.
Individuation; or, the Enjoyment of Immanence
The story of the emergence of the embodied subject, especially in Totality
and Infinity, but in other texts as well, is guided by the concept of enjoyment
(jouissance). It is precisely the being that enjoys life that is summoned by the
Other to respond, and one responds with offerings of what one enjoys. But
which comes first, the enjoyment or the individual who enjoys? Enjoyment,
it would seem, must either produce individuation or enjoyment must take
place in an already - existing individual. In Levinas's view, however, these
events - enjoyment, individuation - are co - constitutive. They generate and
reinforce one another, and there is an ontological story to be told about the
process. And, arguably, this process must have occurred for there to be a
responsive agent who can answer, adequately or inadequately, the call of the
Other. Agency must be accomplished before it can assume responsibility for
its genesis, otherwise what, exactly, is called into question?
What does it mean to be generated by enjoyment? The Levinasian
analysis of enjoyment is packaged with companion concepts like living from,
nourishment, alimentation, and need. These concepts possess physiological
and phenomenological senses, both of which Levinas attends to, often
collapsing their distinction. The scope of enjoyment is not restricted to what
can be consumed, nor is it interpreted as a phenomenon exclusively attached
to the practice of living, using, and doing. Levinas gives enjoyment a more
expansive sense, identifying it as the affect that effects our separation and
makes possible our manipulation of things; it thus conditions the economic/
practical life that Heidegger sees as primordial to human existence.294 The
content of this individuation, this independence, is primarily affective and
self - sustaining:
One does not only exist one's pain or one's joy; one exists
from pains and joys. Enjoyment is precisely this way the act
nourishes itself with its own activity. To live from bread is
therefore neither to represent bread to oneself nor to act on
it nor to act by means of it. To be sure, it is necessary to earn
one's bread, and it is necessary to nourish oneself in order
to earn one's bread; thus the bread I eat is also that with
which I earn my bread and my life. But if I eat my bread in
order to labor and to live, I live from my labor and from my
bread. (TI 111/83)
Enjoyment is not just about taking in and taking pleasure in taking in.
This passage suggests that Sallis is too quick to reduce enjoyment to the
consumptive aspect of alimentation when he characterizes enjoyment in the
following way: "the determination by which to comport oneself to an object
is to appropriate the object, that is, to cancel its otherness and affirm its
sameness with oneself. As in eating."295 This construal of enjoyment not only
overlooks our affective engagements with what could never be consumed
(the elemental, the ungraspable), it too narrowly restricts the meaning of the
Levinasian alimentary. As we will see, alimentation has a much richer and
more nuanced sense than that captured by "consumption."
To be sure, enjoyment is a phenomenon analogous to desire in that it
feeds upon and produces itself, unlike need which is satisfied once its lack
has been filled.296 Hunger, for instance, results from a privation of food,
and when I eat my hunger subsides. Even if the food is unsavory, my body
takes pleasure in the sustenance. The structure of nourishment which is
displayed by enjoyment is of a different order than my satiable hunger,
however. Levinas's treatment of enjoyment belongs to his phenomenology of
alimentation and his exposition of the concrete features of the interiority, or
economy, of subjectivity.297
Nourishment, as a means of invigoration, is the transmutation
of the other into the same, which is in the essence of
enjoyment: an energy that is other, recognized as other,
recognized ... as sustaining the very act that is directed upon
it, becomes, in enjoyment, my own energy, my strength, me.
All enjoyment is in this sense alimentation. (TI 111/83)
To live is to savor life and to have that life nourished by the acts which make
up living: sensing, knowing, imagining, wishing, resting, and so on. Each of
these brings an immediate joy that feeds the egoism at the core of life (TI
112/84). And it is in this enjoyment that the "very pulsation" of the I occurs
(TI 113/85). "Subjectivity originates in the independence and sovereignty
of enjoyment," says Levinas (TI 114/86). Enjoyment makes no appeal to the
absolute transcendence often cited by Levinas as the condition of possibility
for subjective individuation. It is, after all, a product of immanence. It is no
less significant for the genesis of subjectivity than the encounter with the
Other, however.
Correlative with Levinas's emphasis on the irreducible and absolute
transcendence of the Other is an attempt to think the immanent production
of subjectivity. This is evident in the language he employs to describe
the becoming of the subject in enjoyment. He speaks of individuation as
a "coiling" (enroulement), "folding back" (repli), as "spiral" (spirale) and
"involution" (involution) (TI 118/91; EE 81/138; OB 73/92). Enjoyment is
denoted as the "eddy of the same" (le remous même du Même) (TI 115/88).
The imagery here suggests that Levinas is trying to conceive individuation
without recourse to some external, individuating agent or cause, but as an
autoaffective process.298 That is, he seems to want an immanent principle of
animation. It is true that the call to responsibility commanded by the Other
singles me out, or individuates me as an ethical agent, but this can only
occur once I have become someone capable of responding - that is, become
a subject who can be subjected to moral commands. Levinas often speaks
of the encounter with the face of the Other as that which accomplishes my
subjectivity as an ethical subject. For instance: "It is only in approaching the
Other that I attend to myself." And:
The face I welcome makes me pass from phenomenon to
being in another sense: in discourse I expose myself to the
questioning of the Other, and this urgency of the response - 
acuteness of the present - engenders me for responsibility; as
responsible I am brought to my final reality. (TI 178/153)
It is true that for Levinas we are always already discursive, responsible
beings; but he also implies that there is a form of subjectivity - incomplete,
to be sure - which precedes our subjection to the Other. The material
subject, the embodied I, must emerge into a position before it can be called
to account for itself, its possessions, and its enjoyment.
For the subject to be responsible and capable of substituting itself in
the place of the Other, which is precisely what Levinas wants to affirm of
each of us, must not the subject already have something to give? Must it
not be a singular individual, some actual person with actual resources? If
not, would not Levinas be advocating a formal notion of responsibility, one
which responds with empty hands? And would this not be the most abstract
and general form of ethics, an ethics empty of content and on the verge
of effacing the materiality of suffering, inequality, need, and vulnerability?
A non - formal notion of responsibility seems to require a subject that has
not only emerged as an individual, but one who has also already acquired
possessions which it can offer to the destitute Other, before it can be
designated as a responsible/responsive agent. There must be some form of
subjectivity in Levinas's thinking which is not merely envisaged as formal
subjection to the Other, but as actual, concrete existing.
Levinas is grappling with the problem of immanent individuation in
Otherwise than Being when he writes that
Matter "materializes" in satisfaction, which, over and beyond
any intentional relationship of cognition or possession, of
"taking in one's hands," means "biting into...." It is irreducible
to a taking in one's hands, for it is already an absorption of a
"within" including the ambiguity of two inwardnesses: that of
a recipient of spatial forms, and that of an ego assimilating the
other in its identity, and coiling in over itself. (OB 73/92)
And a little further along, he remarks how "there is enjoying of enjoyment
before any reflection, but enjoyment does not turn toward enjoyment
as sight turns toward the seen. Beyond the multiplication of the visible
in images, enjoyment is the singularization of an ego in its coiling back
[enroulement] upon itself" (OB 73/93). What Levinas calls the "advent" of
the subject from out of the anonymity of existence is not a movement of
transcendence, but the taking up of a position through effort, labor, and the
consequent enjoyment which results from these acts. Enjoyment multiplies,
folding back upon itself and wresting the I free, generating a substantial
subject (EE 81/138). The substance of this subject is rooted in the thickness
or viscosity of its affective life.299
Sensibility and the Elements of Representation
Levinas's apology for the primacy of affectivity and the sensuous
embodiment of the subject operates as a response to a perceived deficiency
in the phenomenological method devised by Husserl, in particular its
doctrine of objectifying intentionality. It also continues his critique of the
Kantian subject sketched above. Against Kant and Husserl he envisages the
subject as a material event instead of as a transcendental ego that serves as
the condition of possibility for representing or giving meaning to objects
and events. Insofar as his philosophy attempts to supplant the privileged
place of intentionality in phenomenology; as it attempts to install affectivity,
alterity, and the like at the base of experience, Levinas's philosophy works
against phenomenology in the name of a quasi - materialist metaphysics.
His interest in phenomenology is driven less by a desire to contribute to a
science of phenomena than by a desire to give a non - reductive metaphysical
account of events that could otherwise be explained by the physical sciences
or recuperated by a representationalist epistemology. In a strong sense
Levinas's critique of intentionality is an allergic reaction to what he sees as
the hegemony of representation in phenomenological accounts of otherness
(TI 122 - 127/95 - 100).
Levinas's objection to phenomenological method is straightforward:
if the objectifying acts of theoretical consciousness, what Husserl calls
meaning - giving (Sinngebung) acts, are our primary mode of access to things,
then those things can only appear to us as representations whose content
is predetermined by the representing subject. In short, phenomenology
becomes a modified transcendental idealism, its ontology correlationist.
The problem is that this kind of transcendental philosophy leaves no
room for the radical passivity Levinasian ethics requires, and it fails to
appreciate the ambiguity of the given as well as its capacity to surprise (TI
123, 125/96, 97). "The 'act' of representation discovers, properly speaking,
nothing before itself" (TI 125/97). From the practical perspective, the
subject who constitutes the content of the world through representations
retains an identity that persists throughout all of its experiences. It is not
properly shaped by its world because it is not fully exposed to the world.
The spontaneity of its freedom to represent is never compromised by the
objects it represents. As Levinas says, "in representation the I precisely loses
its opposition to its object; the opposition fades, bringing out the identity of
the I despite the multiplicity of its objects, that is, precisely the unalterable
character of the I. To remain the same is to represent to oneself" (TI
126/99). Representation is the ruin of alterity.
Levinas supplants objectifying acts of consciousness and installs
sensation as the ground of experience. An analogous move is made by
Merleau - Ponty when he (tentatively) places le sentir before both operative
intentionality and intentionality of act. Levinas's move is more radical,
however, because it unequivocally asserts that sensation is discontinuous
with perception and cognition. He recognizes the content of sensibility as
prior to intentionality of any form. This means that the subject's sensuous
contact with what is exterior remains forever anterior to its perception and
representational acts. Its sensuous contact with the Other, as well as with
matter and the sensible as such (the diminutive other), thus comprises
the transcendental field in Levinas's philosophy. John Drabinski writes
of this field:
The sensible surrounds and structures the movement toward
the object and thereby structures the very possibility of the
noematic horizons that form the field of transcendental
exposition. The sensible is transcendental, not in the sense
that it is already an ideality, but rather that it is a presupposed
condition of all reflective life.300
That the sensible is "presupposed" signals Levinas's transgression of
phenomenological principles, as well as his willingness to speculate about
the ontogenesis of subjectivity. This does not mean that Levinas must
break completely with phenomenology in order to rediscover the force
of sensation - on the contrary, he finds that "intentionality rehabilitates
the sensible [réhabilite le sensible]."301 How so? He points to the tacit
dimension of intentional acts, or that which "consciousness sees without
seeing."302 The tacit dimension of seeing is not just the unintended
horizon of unfulfilled intentions which accompany explicit intentions, but
represents the very excess of intentionality which "is incontestably akin to
the modern conceptions of the unconscious and the depths." There is a
reciprocal constitution at play in intentionality, whereby the object, which
is supposedly constituted by consciousness, proves to contain more than its
explicit constitution, and this "more than" reveals itself as always already
conditioning thought. "A new ontology begins: being is posited not only
as correlative to a thought, but as already founding the very thought that
nonetheless constitutes it."303
Levinas's new ontology locates a fundamental excess at the heart of
intentional consciousness, signaling the "ruin of representation" and the
destabilization of the Kantian (and Husserlian) subject. If Kant's schema
requires an imperceptible layer of content that lies below the level of
representation, but one that is beyond the reach of transcendental idealism,
then Levinas shows how this layer threatens to disrupt the stability of
the subject of representation. Kant's transcendental method admits the
existence of this layer of content, but effectively neutralizes its volatility. As
Levinas writes in "The Ruin for Representation":
The idea of a necessary implication that is absolutely
imperceptible to the subject directed on the object, only
discovered after the fact upon reflection, thus not produced in
the present, that is, produced unbeknownst to me, puts an end
to the ideal of representation and the subject's sovereignty, as
well as to the idealism according to which nothing could enter
into me surreptitiously. A deep - seated passion is thus revealed
in thought.304
As the transcendental support of representation the sensible and its
qualities constitute the milieu in which the subject perceives. Totality and
Infinity gives a lengthy description of this ungraspable milieu, referring to
it as "the element." The element has no profiles; it is a pure quality that
we enjoy before we make any categorical judgments about it (TI 131 - 
133/104 - 107). As Sallis characterizes it, the element is "irreducible to a
system of operational references" and "has its own thickness and density....
And unlike the things that come to us in the medium, the medium itself
is nonpossessable." Sallis continues: "The depth of the element does not,
as with a thing, conceal a series of other profiles that could be offered to
various perspectives."305 The element is that which surrounds us, like climate
or atmospheric temperature or the aesthetic.
Lover of ambiguity that he is, and despite the fact that he uses the term
to describe the flesh, the element as Levinas understands it appears to be
missing in Merleau - Ponty.306 For Levinas the element is the very locus of
ambiguity and what resists categorical judgment. This is its unique mode of
being, what enables it to support the things that inhabit it without appearing
as one of those things. And yet, it is not simply the horizon or background
of an intentional act. It exceeds every such act. The elemental/sensuous
milieu "is privileged, because within it that ambiguity of constitution,
whereby the noema conditions and shelters the noesis that constitutes it, is
played out."307 Levinas notes that Husserl wanted to designate the sensuous
as objective, that is, as independent of subjective constitution, but his
adherence to the primacy of intentionality prevented him from doing so.
This is because intentionality "plays the role of an apprehension with regard
to those contents upon which it bestows an objective meaning and which
it animates or inspires."308 By contrast, Levinas insists that we live through
the objectivity of sensations. Even Husserl recognized this. It is then more
accurate to say that the "materiality of sensations [matérialité des sensations]"
is, borrowing Levinas's own expression, lived from or enjoyed, never
intended, apprehended or grasped by the intellect or perception.309
In addition to acting as a resistance to representational thinking
sensation provides the aliment that gives birth to any subject capable of
representing. Sensation, then, would not be just an effect of the objective on
the subject, but a "complicity" between the materiality of subject and object:
"the corporeity of consciousness is in exact proportion to this participation
of consciousness in the world it constitutes, but this corporeity is produced
[produit] in sensation."310 In Otherwise than Being this complicity is developed
in Levinas's analysis of sensibility and in terms of "contact" with otherness,
and contributes to Levinas's transcendental aesthetic of embodiment.311 It is
notable that emphasis in both texts is on the productive aspect of sensation,
its capacity to generate the consciousness of the lived body.
The ensuous complicity of subject and object recalls Merleau - Ponty's
idea of sensing as communion. The key difference between the two thinkers,
however, is that Merleau - Ponty sees this communion as synchronous,
whereas Levinas recognizes it as the locus of a diachrony which entails the
very instability of the body - world relation. Also lacking in Merleau - Ponty's
understanding is the idea that corporeity itself is produced materially
by sensations, that sensations conspire with affects to produce singular
subjects. In Merleau - Ponty's subject - object dialogue it is the movement
of perception and the posture of the body (but not its materiality) that
is affected by sensation, whereas for Levinas sensation actually produces
the body qua living, sensing, enjoying being. The difference may be more
palpable if Levinas's position is rendered in neuroscientific discourse,
which regards "the conversion of what is felt into nervous material [as]
nonstop," as Bernard Andrieu notes.312 For Levinas, sensations and affects
are converted - and this he tries to account for phenomenologically - into
the content of life, or the feeling of living. Insofar as we live from this feeling
and gain a desire to continue living, we can say that sensations are converted
into material life. In biology there is a name for this process - metabolism.313
Sensing, for Levinas, is a metabolic event. But it is also an intimate kind
of transaction, beyond mere commerce or exchange, one that is felt and
enjoyed by the being that metabolizes.
There is a distinct shift of emphasis between the analyses of sensibility
given in Totality and Infinity and Otherwise than Being. In the earlier text
Levinas concentrates his narrative of subject - constitution on the enabling
features of sensibility and the dependence of the body on the material
environment. In the later text he tends to cast sensibility as that which leaves
the subject precariously exposed to the outside and vulnerable to wounding.
That is, a non - reciprocity comes to mark the relation between the body and
the other: the Levinasian body ultimately becomes a susceptible body, where
susceptibility is understood as the radical passivity which arises from the
diachrony of sensibility. In both texts sensibility is given a pre - reflective and
pre - representational role, and it is clear that Levinas sees it as prior to the
emergence of objectifying consciousness.
Levinas affirms, following Descartes, the irrationality and ambiguity
of sensation. Like Kant, he separates sensibility from the understanding
and relegates sensible "matter" to a place beyond "the synthetic power
of representation" (TI 135 - 136/109). Nevertheless, Levinas maintains
that a phenomenology of sensation is possible. I will try to adduce in the
remainder of this chapter Levinas's "phenomenology of the sensible" (TI
136/109) and his unique perspective on sensibility.
The Phenomenology of Sensation
Totality and Infinity ties sensibility to enjoyment, calling enjoyment the
"essence" of sensibility. Conversely, sensibility is determined as the "mode of
enjoyment" (TI 134, 135/107, 108). Sensibility is therefore determined as a
mode of affectivity or point of access for pleasurable and painful encounters.
If, as we saw earlier, enjoyment is responsible for the genesis of the self, then
sensibility must also have something to do with how the self is generated.
Sensibility's modality is undirected and sufficient unto itself (TI
135/108 - 109), which means that it does not belong to the order of
instrumentality that Levinas assigns to the economy of possession - the
hand that grasps objects as tools/implements (as in Heidegger or Merleau - 
Ponty) or the mind which grasps objects as concepts (as in Hegel) or assigns
phenomena their meaning (as in Husserl).314 Sensibility is neither "a means
to..." nor "in the service of...," despite being basic to labor, work, effort,
dwelling, and so on. Above all, it is a direct encounter with the otherness
that is given through sensation and material life, which is not for Levinas
simply a question of resistance to action or opposition: sensibility establishes
our relation to the elemental through our corporeal enjoyment of aesthetic
qualities (TI 136/109). This enjoyment is discontinuous with the synthetic
acts of consciousness. It is not a stage toward representation, but the fleeting
affective rhythm of the I. It is, as Merleau - Ponty has put it, a mode in which
the subject is born and dies as each instant (TI 136, 143/109 - 110, 117;
PP 216/250).
Silvia Benso illustrates this process with an analysis of breathing.
Breathing is a twofold process, inspiration and expiration. Inspiration and
expiration, which are structurally equivalent to birth and death, animatethe
subject with the element of air. "Such an animation does not occur at
the level of cognition, theory, or intentionality, claims Levinas. Rather, it
is only possible at the level of the body, through an incarnation."315 This
interpretation of living disengages the body from its reliance on the soul
by localizing the animation of subjectivity in the intercorporeal, rather
than spiritual, realm. The problem of the interaction of body and soul
drops off in favor of a phenomenology of corporeal life and its reliance on
the elemental. "The body thus is retrieved from its confinement in that
Cartesian ... order of materiality for which the body and the soul 'have no
common space where they can touch'."316 The significance of breathing is
not merely physiological, as Levinas makes clear. It yields a transcendental
interpretation that locates the conditions of possibility at the border between
body and environment, that is, in sensibility.
The pulsation of the I is supported by the sensible, while the sensible
itself remains groundless, anarchic. The insecurity entailed in this
anarchy is not exactly a material threat, but a question of the temporality
of the sensible. The sensible world "precedes me as an absolute of an
unrepresentable antiquity" that is perhaps only apprehensible by imagining
the total destruction of the world - an impossible thought experiment (TI
137/111; EE 51/93). We cannot know from whence it comes or whether it
will continue in the future. Its promise is precarious, without guarantee that
it will continue to sustain life.
It is true that we always access the sensible in the present and, affective
and abstract encounters notwithstanding, via representations. Merleau - 
Ponty points to Cézanne's painting; Deleuze, Francis Bacon's. Digital
imaging of the autonomic nervous system offers a high - tech representation
of the sensing body. This does not mean that the totality of the sensible
is given in representations, for "the represented, the present, is a fact,
already belonging to a past" (TI 130/103). Representations are laced with
an anteriority that cannot endure the formal exigencies of the present. To
represent the sensible as such would be analogous to encountering the il
y a in pure form, bare existence, in its absolute formlessness. It would be
an actualization in the present of the absolute past, the apeiron whence
everything comes. Despite the impossibility of this event - we are always
already caught up in a world of thought, language, perception - Levinas
assures us that we do in fact come face to face with formless phenomena
(TI 139/112). In Totality and Infinity he speaks of how our identities are
haunted by the elemental and the insecurity this brings us, while in Existence
and Existents he speaks of the horror of the il y a that we experience in the
night.317 But how are these formless phenomena revealed, that is, accessed
phenomenologically?
Building an Identity
Existence and Existents traces the genesis of the individual existent from
out of the anonymity of pure existence, being qua being. This anonymity,
although not temporally prior to individuation, maintains an ontological
priority over the subject who thinks, acts, and feels as a singular ego or
person. On Levinas's account the existent breaks free from anonymity by
taking up a position or assuming an identity, exerting itself against the
indeterminacy of being and feeling itself alive in its efforts. It is only when
we make an effort through labor that a rift is created in being and the
present is allowed to open up: "Effort is the very effecting of a present,"
says Levinas (EE 23/48), because the fatigue which results from effort
dislocates the existent from its synchrony with the uninterrupted duration
of bare existence.318 The same is said by Rousseau in the Discourse on the
Origin of Inequality, in which it is work and the subsequent circumscription
of property that extricates human being from the infantile and innocent
realm of sensibility.319 What Jean Starobinski calls the "struggle to overcome
natural obstacles" with the application of tools is what gives rise to the
psychological transformations that institute a critical reflective distance
between humans and their environment.320 Work, in short, conditions
reflection and leads eventually to the inequalities of society. For Levinas,
work introduces more than a psychological rift and more than social
inequality: work tears pure being and time apart. Work produces subjects.
Whereas the process of individuation, and the opposition of self and other
entailed in it, is for Rousseau psychological, for Levinas it is basically
affective. And this affectivity performs a transcendental function that is
not found in Rousseau's speculative anthropology. As an affective, rather
than reflective, event the retroactive movement of work on the partitioning
of being awakens us to our interminable contract with existence. Despite
appearances, work is not an escape from existence: "Fatigue is to be sure
not a cancellation of one's contact with being. The delay it involves is
nonetheless an inscription in existence..." (EE 25/51).
Our inescapable attachment to existence is dramatized in the experience
of insomnia. The insomniac not only feels herself alive in her fatigue,
she suffers existence in a much more menacing form. She faces the
insufferability of pure existence as she seeks, through what Levinas calls
"vigilance," to tear herself free from the indeterminacy of the night which
watches over her, holds her hostage to her wakefulness.321 Particularly in
Existence and Existents the night figures as the experiential form of the il y a,
or pure being. In the night, Levinas tells us, things lose their form and the
dark matter of existence encroaches upon us. Being takes on a menacing
aspect through which we are confronted with the anonymity of our own
existence. Insomnia reminds us that we are not completely in control of
our being.322
The insomniac experiences a wakefulness at night that contests the
spontaneity of her will, that challenges the authority she claims over her
position in existence. She wants and wills sleep, but sleep will not come.
And it eventually seems that it is the night itself which withholds sleep
from her. The sense of being alive that comes with fatigue transforms into
a restless horror. She finds herself at the mercy of being. Instead of fatigue
giving way to sleep, "One watches on when there is nothing to watch and
despite the absence of any reason for remaining watchful" (EE 61/109). It is
as though, in the grip of the night, the restlessness of the insomniac's body
has extinguished the freedom of the ego and rendered the ego a prisoner
of the night. "I am, one might say, the object rather than the subject of an
anonymous thought" (EE 63/111). And this, says Levinas, is a horrifying
condition (EE 55/98).323
The horror of existence is articulated with the insecurity bestowed upon
our bodies by our sensibility, a condition which is warded off (for a time)
in dwelling (TI 137/110 - 111). In dwelling we shelter ourselves from the
elements, and this sheltering offers the nourishment of enjoyment. The
enjoyment of warmth, security, comfort. We shelter ourselves because we
are incapable of getting a hold on or containing the elements that, beyond a
certain threshold, begin to destroy instead of sustain us. The air we breathe
is the same air that freezes our flesh. The themes of fatigue and effort found
in Existence and Existents recur in the narrative regarding dwelling and
possession contained in Totality and Infinity. The phenomenon of dwelling
is elaborated against the backdrop of enjoyment, on the one hand, and the
insecurity buried in the depths of enjoyment, on the other. Dwelling is an
ambivalent affair.
Dwelling gives rise to the representation and, ultimately, possession
of objects. But dwelling is not only an activity in which consumption and
possession occur, it is itself an event of alimentation. There are multiple
kinds of alimentation involved in dwelling, some affective and others
consumptive. In the home the subject takes up a position of refuge. Only
after this position is established can labor commence, and it is this labor,
for Levinas, that gives form to matter and produces the world of graspable/
consumable things - possessions (TI 156, 157, 159/130, 131, 133).324 "A
subject does not exist before the event of its position. The act of taking
a position does not unfold in some dimension from which it could take
its origin; it arises at the very point at which it acts" (EE 81/138). Taking
a position is a condition of laboring, and yet it is not yet acting. Acting
is a movement of transcendence, whereas laboring is a movement of
immanence. Assuming a position belongs to the involutionary movement of
effort and fatigue, of enjoyment and living from.... Positioning and dwelling
are the concrete modes through which the subject comes to be situated
in the objective world. They lend bodies the support needed to come to
terms with the elemental through labor (TI 158/131). Yet, this is the kind
of support that must be constantly taken up, rebuilt, and maintained - a
Sisyphean labor.
Labor leads to possession and is guided by the final causality of the
hand. The hand takes hold of things, masters them, comprehends them. It
takes them up and puts them to use. "Possession is accomplished in taking - 
possession or labor, the destiny of the hand" (TI 159/132). Possession is
contrasted with the enjoyment of sensibility, which is precisely determined
by its non - possession: "The hand comprehends the thing not because it
touches it on all sides at the same time ... but because it is no longer a
sense - organ, pure enjoyment, pure sensibility, but is mastery, domination,
disposition - which do not belong to the order of sensibility" (TI 161/135).
Levinas aims to designate possession as a practico - ontological affair, one
that assuages the insecurity brought on by our exposure to the elemental:
"Possession masters, suspends, postpones the unforeseeable future of the
element - its independence, its being" (TI 158/132). Despite its attachment
to ontology, however, Levinas refuses here to call labor a violence. This is
because "it is applied to what is faceless, to the resistance of nothingness"
(TI 160/134).
All of this - from individuation to dwelling to labor - involves and
influences the genesis of the body of the subject who dwells and labors.
First, the hand substantializes things, outlines their contours and draws
them out of the pure quality of the element. Things are not first there,
waiting to give themselves to consciousness.325 Second, Levinas argues
that the subject is originally influenced by its affective commerce with the
element. It is "the product of the medium." The lived body is no more
active than it is passive, no less affective than perceptive. This is not an
endorsement of the duality of the body (lived body/objective body), but
of its "ambiguous" nature, which Levinas identifies with consciousness
(TI 165/139). Consciousness, he says, is not an incarnation, but a
"disincarnation," a "positioning of the corporeity of the body" which
emerges in the "concreteness of dwelling and labor" (TI 165 - 166/140).
Consciousness, then, arises out of the body's pulsations in labor. The rhythm
of labor, and the tension involved therein, give rise to consciousness. He
thus provides an account - part phenomenological, part speculative - of
the birth of subjectivity in the body. One is reminded here of Nietzsche's
remarks on the origin of consciousness in On the Genealogy of Morality,
where the inhibition of physical human activity gives birth, in a folding
back upon oneself, to the "internalizing of man" - conscious reflection.326
Only after the fact of embodiment do reflective and representational activity
become possible. Appreciating the ambiguity of the body's relation to the
other, Levinas writes:
In its deep - seated fear life attests this ever possible inversion
of the body - master into body - slave, of health and sickness. To
be a body is on the one hand to stand [se tenir], to be master
of oneself, and, on the other hand, to stand on the earth, to
be in the other, and thus to be encumbered by one's body.
But - we repeat - this encumberment is not produced as a
pure dependence; it forms the happiness of him who enjoys it.
(TI 164/138)
The body's capacity to work on things acts as a consolation for its inability
to rend itself from being to enjoy a degree of autonomy and accumulate a
stock of resources that may be shared with the needful Other. Consciousness
relieves the body - gives respite, allows it to stand out - from the physical
realm, helping to postpone the disintegration and death proper to material
life. At the same time the body remains prey to the Other who "paralyzes
possession" (TI 170, 171/145).
The Rhythm of Sensation
Levinas's prioritizing of sensibility over the grasp and comprehension works
as a critique of Merleau - Ponty, in particular the latter's insistence that our
basic modus operandi involves an initial hold on things that increasingly
converges upon an even better hold. While Levinas certainly appreciates that
our practical relations with things, our treatment of them as implements,
is our primary means of handling the world, he insists that below the
equipmental and perceptual levels lies the inscrutable level of sensation.
Sensation is not part of perception. Perception belongs to the intentional
sphere, the realm of consciousness, whereas sensation anonymously
haunts the edges of perception. The affectivity of sensation functions
transcendentally; it is virtually real. Perception actualizes representations.327
"The very distinction between representational and affective content is
tantamount to a recognition that enjoyment is endowed with a dynamism
other than that of perception," writes Levinas (TI 187/161). He realizes
that such claims stretch the limits of phenomenology, but he aspires to a
phenomenology of sensation nonetheless.
Levinas's entire ontology of the sensible is built on the claim that the
pure quality of existence is independent of us, anarchic, and ungraspable - 
and yet, it is given. No reversibility can exist between us and the
purely sensible because it is in the nature of the sensible to exceed our
representational and practical capacities; it is impossible to "get a grip"
on it. This leaves us vulnerable to its precarious future. At the heart of
sensibility is a diachrony, or dehiscence, that interrupts the synchrony of
body and world just as a caress of the skin defers the immediacy of contact
indefinitely. "In a caress, what is there is sought as though it were not
there, as though the skin were the trace of its own withdrawal, a languor
still seeking, like an absence which, however, could not be more there. The
caress is the not coinciding proper to contact" (OB 90/114).328
In "Reality and Its Shadow," one of his most sustained treatments of
aesthetics and art, Levinas explicitly argues for the diachrony of aesthetic
experience. Here he is close to Deleuze in at least one respect: both thinkers
see the effects of aesthetic "rhythm" as constitutive of aesthetic experience
and, consequently, the integrity of the embodied subject. For Levinas
rhythm is the means by which we are affected, against our will, by the work
of art. This is how the work hits us. This affection, however, is different from
that undergone when someone is faced with the il y a, which "lacks rhythm"
(EE 62/111), suggesting that the pure encounter with being is outside
aesthetics. Rhythm conducts the passive moment of sensing, the moment in
which our active representation is converted into a passive reception:
Rhythm represents a unique situation where we cannot speak
of consent, assumption, initiative or freedom, because the
subject is caught up and carried away by it. The subject is
part of its own representation. It is so not even despite itself,
for in rhythm there is no longer a oneself, but rather a sort of
passage from oneself to anonymity.329
This is applicable not only to music, but to poetry and painting as well.
Rhythm is precisely that sensible form/content that detaches itself from the
artwork and seizes upon sensibility, bypassing consciousness, folding the
subject into the aesthetic event.330
To insist on the musicality of every image is to see in an image
its detachment from an object, that independence from the
category of substance which the analysis of our textbooks
ascribe to pure sensation not yet converted into perception
(sensation as an adjective), which for empirical psychology
remains a limit case, a purely hypothetical given.331
Embedded in the figure and form of representational content lies the
sensory content which informs the rhythm of the aesthetic. Granted, we
may not always apprehend the rhythm of sensation phenomenologically,
but that is just the point: the function of sensation is to affect sensibility
directly and render the viewer/listener captive. This is why Levinas says that
sensibility is "realized only by the imagination."332 Only the imagination of
the painter, poet, musician, for example, can represent the aesthetic event
with which sensibility comes into contact, that is, pure sensation detached
from representation. The audience can attempt the same.
Sensation is an interpellation, a kind of imperative that cannot be dodged
because its subtle force operates immediately on the body, below the level of
both perception and apperception. Insofar as it engages us simultaneously at
the level of perception and sensation, indirectly and directly on the body, the
aesthetic dimension operates diachronically. It is, in short, out of step with
the correlation of thought and being.333 Since the sensory event is always
happening behind the scenes, animating the present representation but
never rising to the level of representation, it remains forever in the past.334
Rhythm affects sensibility as a "distinct ontological event," according
to Levinas.335 Deleuze has argued a similar point about the effect of some
painting, specifically Francis Bacon's. For Deleuze rhythm is fundamental
to the "logic" of sensation; it is what animates/unifies the senses and their
discrete content.336 This logic does not belong to the physiological layout
of the organic body, but rather it operates on the body "at the point where
rhythm plunges into chaos, into the night, at the point where the differences
of level are perpetually and violently mixed."337 Because the body is not just
an organized set of organs, but also an event ("at one and the same time I
become in the sensation and something happens through the sensation...")338
whose integrity is constituted by thresholds and limits, the body becomes
organized by the sensations it receives or gives off.
It is not the stable form of the body that Bacon paints, but what
sensation does to the body, the body as sensory event: "what is painted
on the canvas is the body, not insofar as it is represented as an object, but
insofar as it is experienced as sustaining this sensation," argues Deleuze.339
As Panagia frames the problem: "Bacon is thus not painting figures, nor
are his paintings merely grotesque; he is, rather, making invisible forces
palpable; for Deleuze, Bacon confronts the central problem of painting, the
problem of rendering invisible forces."340 In a sense what Bacon paints is the
"accumulation" of forces that makes up the identity of the body - its sensory
fingerprint or signature, so to speak. This identity is, however, never fixed or
properly personal: it belongs to the anonymous rhythm of the sensible and
is always prone to the "violence" or "disfiguration" of sensations emitted by
other bodies.341 It just happens.
Deleuze gives us a more radical expression of what sensation does than
Levinas, although I think they are effectively on the same page about what
sensation is. Although the two philosophers have many differences, taken
together Levinas's and Deleuze's analyses of aesthetic rhythm allow us to
glimpse a dynamic, and somewhat paradoxical, conception of aesthetic
identity. On this model identity is constituted by the imperceptible
exchange of sensations between bodies in direct communication. Sensations
accumulate in the body, giving it a particular figure or disfiguring it. Bodies
are thus determined by the sensations they offer and receive from other
bodies. They are, as Spinoza has it, capacities to affect and be affected
aesthetically. Or, as Hume might have said, I am nothing more than the
sensations which pass across and territorialize my body. I am little more
than the sounds, scents, colors, textures, and tastes emitted from my body. I
am a conspiracy of sensations.
Alimentation and Susceptibility
The significance of this conception of bodily identity is ramified in
Levinas's work because he regards sensation as foundational to both
experience and selfhood. Levinas's brief discussion of the "transcendental
function" of sensation circles us back to the analysis of enjoyment and
the immanent constitution of the subject by the other.342 We must always
keep in mind that sensation, for Levinas as for Deleuze, is never just a
matter of the "ambivalence" of feeling.343 With the explicit affirmation of its
transcendental function we see Levinas appreciating the force of sensation
significantly more than Merleau - Ponty, who, in Levinas's view, overlooks the
deep ambiguity and passivity of sensation.344 To achieve this appreciation
Levinas must venture outside of phenomenology and into speculative
metaphysics, affirming the reality of sensation not only as something that
provides the content of cognition, but also as something that directly shapes
the structural integrity of the subject. Sensation, then, names a fundamental,
if not radical, passivity of the subject.345 The subject, as embodied, finds
itself from the start in a heteronomous position - affected and nourished
by what is other than itself. Its first receptivity is its sensibility; it lives from
sensations which provide the alimentary content of its representations.
This alimentary layer of sensation "recovers a 'reality' when we see in it
not the subjective counterpart of objective qualities, but an enjoyment
'anterior' to the crystallization of consciousness, I and non - I, into subject
and object" (TI 188/162).346 Sensation here names the experience of the
body in immanence, but an immanence which is constantly broken up by a
double temporality: the temporality of the represented and the temporality
of the sensed.
No one has appreciated the alimentary or enabling dimension of
sensation more than Alphonso Lingis. In fact, Lingis goes so far as to defend
the ethical valence of the force of sensation. Prior to any formal imperative
imposed on the intellect by reason is the imperative the body receives from
the environment, which orders the body to adapt itself to the contour of
the land, the shape of the tool taken up in our work, or the elements which
envelop it.347 This contact with things is directly received as sensations which
are assimilated into the posture of the body and its body schema. Or, to
put it more radically, the body is schematized by the sensuous environment
which accumulates in its flesh. Sensation and schematization name an
identical process:
The imperative in our environment is received, not on our
understanding in conflict with our sensuality, but on our
postural schema which integrates our sensibility and mobilizes
our motor forces. It is received on our sensory - motor bodies
as bodies we have to center upon things that orient our
movements, bodies we have to anchor on the levels down
which our vision, our touch, our listening move, on which we
station ourselves and move in the heart of reality. It orders our
competence.348
Of course, we always negotiate with the layout of the environment as we
make our way through it. But there is a sense in which our bodies are made
to move in certain non - negotiable, imperative ways: reflexes and other
autonomic responses, debilitating and incapacitating ways necessitated
by our materiality. Levinas speaks of how the face of the Other does not
compel me to accept its solicitation after I have considered it, but before:
"In the proximity of the face, the subjection precedes the reasoned decision
to assume the order that it bears."349 Lingis finds this kind of subjection in
sensation writ large, not just in the aesthetics of the human face.
Imperative responses cut straight to our sensibility and would be
apprehended as pure sensations if perception did not filter them through
figured representations and the figure - ground structure. This is a speculative
point, but one worth risking. We live from these responses because they
enable our bodies to move through and work competently in the material
world. However, we do not constitute them. They are the medium through
which the world communicates to us. This is possible because our bodies
are immanent to, and in many respects dependent upon, other bodies like
and unlike our own. Radios, daffodils, street signs, and neighborhoods
impress us and invest us with their diverse sensuous content. This is what it
means to belong to an ecological community and to be a member of what
Vivian Sobchack calls the "interobjective" realm. Interobjectivity describes
the anonymous community in which our bodies, otherwise consciously,
"exist with the common matter and potential of materiality that is mutually
shared not only by intentional subjects but also by nonintentional objects."350
The passions we undergo in the interobjective realm inform us of what it
means to be "not only an objective subject but also a subjective object whose
intentionality and alterity can be sensed from without." And, continues
Sobchack, it is in the passionate suffering of interobjectivity that we gain
"an enhanced awareness of what it is to be material" and an appreciation
for "the material foundation of our aesthetic behavior toward the world
and others."351 To feel oneself as a material being that suffers and makes
others suffer is to recognize at once that the aesthetic foundation of action
is likewise the basis of the ethical. Ecological life is not just about flowers,
furry critters, conservation, and cooperative living.352 There are darker sides
of relational life that harbor their own power, as we will see later on.
In Levinas's later work, Otherwise than Being, immanence takes on a
grave tenor. As Stella Sandford notes, "Both stress the corporeality of
the subject as sensibility, but in Totality and Infinity the emphasis falls on
pleasure, while in Otherwise than Being the keynote is suffering."353 The
heteroaffection of sensibility becomes a transcendental vulnerability and
the animation of the subject is cast as the "body exposed to the other"
(OB 69/87).354 The alimentary function of sensation, which is apparent
throughout Levinas's exploration of dwelling and enjoyment in Totality and
Infinity, is displaced by a desire to articulate the way in which sensibility
leads to the break up of identity, and is the means by which the subject is
subjected to the diachrony of the sensible (OB 14 - 15/17 - 19).355 Levinas goes
so far as to identify subjectivity with the vulnerability of sensibility (OB 15,
50, 54/18, 65 - 66, 70). This vulnerability is given a carnal form, the skin, and
a phenomenological interpretation that will serve to reground his theory of
ethical responsibility.
Levinas once again points to labor, fatigue, and effort to reprise
the embodied aspect of subjectivity. But the affection of the subject is
interpreted now more emphatically as obsession, pain, and the interruption
of enjoyment. Corporeality "is the pain of effort, the original adversity of
fatigue, which arises in the upsurge of movement and in the energy involved
in labor" (OB 54/70). Levinas has replaced the originary enjoyment of labor
with an originary suffering: "As a passivity in the paining of the pain felt,
sensibility is a vulnerability, for pain comes to interrupt an enjoyment in
its very isolation, and thus tears me from myself" (OB 55/71). It is difficult
to discern whether enjoyment or pain takes precedence now, or whether
they are equiprimordial modes of existence. For instance, Levinas says that,
"It is with savoring and enjoyment that the analysis of sensibility will have
to begin" (OB 56/72), but this does not mean that sensibility is originally
savoring and enjoyment. Nor does this statement outweigh what he says
in defense of the primacy of pain in Otherwise than Being. Dennis King
Keenan points out a similar ambiguity regarding Levinas's position on
sensibility. It is not clear, says Keenan, whether enjoyment of sensibility is
an exposure to the other or a singularizing involution, or if our relationship
with the other should "be characterized as enjoyment, menace/necessity, or
responsibility, all of which are singularizing and exposure. Despite Levinas's
attempts in Totality and Infinity to establish and maintain a rigid distinction,
there is blurring."356 What is clear is that pain and enjoyment both belong
to sensibility, which in either case provides the body's first opening
onto its other.
Immediacy and materiality lend sensibility its constitutive susceptibility.
Levinas writes of how matter "materializes" in enjoyment and satisfaction,
which is first and foremost a seizing and a consuming (OB 73/92). The
materiality of enjoyment is then correlated with the excess of meaning
involved in alimentation, an excess that "conditions the very thought that
would think it as condition" (TI 128/101; see also, TO 62 - 64/45 - 49). But,
at the same time and paradoxically (not unlike Derrida's pharmakon, if
you like), what nourishes us is also what threatens the stability or integrity
of our bodies. The material we come into contact with through sensibility
contains a basic ambivalence: it enables us, but remains perpetually capable
of disabling us. Sensibility, as a form of contact, is the reversion of our grasp
on things into our being grasped by them, a situation which is described
by Levinas "in the ambiguity of a kiss" (OB 75/94). This ambiguity is not
equivalent to the reversibility that Merleau - Ponty sees in the handshake,
because, in Levinas's view, the supposed imminence of reversibility is
precisely what remains in question and precarious, even if his diachronic
structure of self and other is analogous to Merleau - Ponty's.357 It is as
though the ambiguity of the kiss, or the handshake, is what short - circuits
or prevents reversibility, thus undermining Merleau - Ponty's image of the
flesh by installing an image of irreversibility. One never knows whether
the encounter is reciprocal or oppositional; both are viable possibilities.
"[Sensibility]" writes Levinas, "reverts from the activity of being a hunter of
images to the passivity of being prey, from being aim to being wound, from
being an intellectual act of apprehension to apprehension as an obsession by
another who does not manifest himself" (OB 75/95).
Contact has a technical sense for Levinas; it names a precise situation.
It is basic to the embodied subject and describes the absolute "proximity of
the other" as "the immediate opening up for the other of the immediacy of
enjoyment, the immediacy of taste, materialization of matter" (OB 74/94).
Contact likewise describes the original exposure of sensibility to the other,
that is, the transcendental aspect of heteroaffection. The subject who enjoys
and is born from enjoyment is always already enjoying the other as element,
sensation, matter. Subjects live from the other, hence their responsibility for
the other. Levinas gives contact/proximity a carnal signification:
Sensibility - the proximity, immediacy and restlessness which
signify in it - is not constituted out of some apperception
putting consciousness into relationship with a body.
Incarnation is not a transcendental operation of a subject that
is situated in the midst of a world it represents to itself; the
sensible experience of the body is already and from the start
incarnate. The sensible ... binds the node of incarnation into a
plot larger than the apperception of the self. In this plot I am
bound to others before being tied to my body. (OB 76/96)
Proximity, then, is prior to the emergence of the subject who represents
or whose body is an "I can." It opens the subject to the approach of the
other, which arrives "as though from an immemorial past, which was
never present, began in no freedom" (OB 88/112). Our contact with
the transcendental past is embodied in the skin, which Levinas, echoing
Merleau - Ponty, calls "the divergency [l'écart] between the visible and the
invisible" (OB 89/113). The skin is not a flesh in which each one of us
participates, but a surface that at once keeps us separated and touching,
substances who exist in themselves yet nevertheless relate. Sandford
captures the carnality of proximity, and recalls Benso's remarks on
breathing, when she writes:
It is the respiration of the skin prior to any intention, a
being turned to the Other as a being turned inside out, a
going beyond the skin, to the underside of the skin, a getting
underneath the skin, an obsession, a nakedness more naked
than any excoriation (dépouillement). This is proximity.358
The skin is a liminal site, "the gap [décalage] between approach and
approached" where alterity is produced (OB 90/114; TI 26 - 27/xiv - xv).
In Totality and Infinity (26 - 27/xiv - xv) Levinas explains that the idea of
infinity - which is synonymous with the revelation of the Other - is produced
in me, "in the improbable feat whereby a separated being fixed in its
identity, the same, the I, nonetheless contains in itself what it can neither
contain nor receive solely by virtue of its own identity." It seems to me that
the skin, insofar as it is receptive to an influx of sensory material which
it could never hope to process completely, is the site where the depths of
things - their matter, according to Levinas - is produced/revealed. That is,
the skin is the surface where our objectifying representations find their limit.
The skin is naturally vulnerable because of its permeability. As Rudolf
Bernet explains,
Even a tight and thick skin has small and large holes that one
can adequately call "openings." There are natural openings as
well as artificial or forced openings called "wounds." Natural
openings are still subject, however, to being forced and
wounded. The natural openings allowing for a passage and
exchange between the inside and the outside of a body cannot
prevent the violence of a traumatic intrusion or expulsion.359
Levinas must have something like this in mind when he argues that
sensibility is vulnerability and exposure to the other. Bernet points out that
the singular nature of the skins involved in a particular instance of contact
lend their quality to the intersubjective encounter, and help to determine
whether the encounter is friendly or violent.360 This means that the skin, or
contact/proximity, cannot be deemed violent a priori. And if we are going to
allow Levinas to say that the sensitivity of the skin - sensibility generally - is
susceptibility, then this condition must be understood as ambivalent. Above
all it should be maintained that my exposure to the other equally enables
and disables, figures and disfigures my body. A priori this exposure is neither
painful nor pleasurable.
Hopefully it is becoming clearer how and why the aesthetic dimension
of existence is basic to Levinas's ontology of the body. In fact, we could
go so far as to affirm that aesthetics - understood as the ontology of
aisthesis - must be first philosophy for Levinas.361 The subject's primary
opening onto the other is the body's sensibility - that is, its capacity to
sense and be affected by the material it lives and dies from. Sensibility is the
condition of possibility for enjoyment, discomfort, and pain, and therefore
a condition of possibility for ipseity, or selfhood. It is this ipseity which is
Sensibility, Susceptibility, and the Genesis of Individuals 173
interpellated by the Other and called into question. But this ipseity must
first be won through effort and labor before it can answer responsibly the
call of the Other.
We have seen that for Levinas sensation has an affective dimension, as is
connoted in the French sentir, and also names a distinct ontological event.
This event involves the passivity of the subject, on the one hand, and the
objectivity ("transcendence") of the sensations which direct sensibility,
on the other. Levinas's disqualification of the view that sensation is purely
subjective, something that happens inside the mind or only as a correlate
of consciousness, commits him to a form of ontological realism. Unlike
Kant or Husserl, whose methodological commitments should prevent them
from speaking about what lies beyond the bounds of the phenomenal,
Levinas breaks free from phenomenology to make metaphysical claims
about the non - intentional/transcendental realm of sensation. In fact, he
openly admits that these claims are metaphysical and beyond the purview
of phenomenological method. They are, however, not unintelligible: "This is
the whole point," says Sandford, of Levinas's method:
Levinas's philosophical method therefore consists in a series
of metaphysical declarations apparently extrapolated from
and further supported by phenomenological evidences.
Metaphysical truths are revealed through phenomenology,
both in the sense that phenomenology allows one to encounter
them and that it functions verificationally after the event of
disclosure. In this way, the strong claim for the intelligibility
of transcendence is apparently based on, revealed through
or justified by the appeal to the phenomenology of the ethics
of affect.362
It is precisely because sensations come from outside that Levinas can
characterize sensibility as vulnerability. Indeed, he requires the externality of
sensation, and the corporeal vulnerability this implies, in order to prioritize
ethics over any other branch of philosophy. Or, as David Michael Levin has
said, "The embodiment of the categorical imperative cannot be understood
... until our way of thinking about the body undergoes a radical revision."363
If the ambivalence of sensibility is recognized - as I have argued - then
the exigency of ethics becomes bound to the ontology of the body, and it
becomes less clear which branch of philosophy enjoys primacy. Levinas
would have us believe that our bodies are constantly under attack from the
outside, and at times it seems as though he were arguing that intercorporeal
encounters are essentially violent. He speaks of our openness to exteriority
as "the vulnerability of the skin exposed, in wounds and outrage" and of
sensibility as
a nakedness more naked than that of the skin which, as form
and beauty, inspires the plastic arts, the nakedness of a skin
presented to contact, to the caress, which always - even,
equivocally, in voluptuousness - is suffering for the suffering of
the other. Uncovered, open like a city declared open upon the
approach of the enemy, the sensibility, prior to all will, action,
declaration, all taking up of positions, is vulnerability itself.364
Like a faithful phenomenologist, Levinas notes that this susceptibility is not
reducible to the physiological body's causal relations. No, this susceptibility
is a passivity "more passive than every passivity," which is to say, a radical
transcendental passivity. "It is the aptitude ... 'to be beaten', 'to receive
blows'. ... In vulnerability there then lies a relationship with the other which
causality does not exhaust, a relationship antecedent to being affected by a
stimulus."365
It is one of the virtues of Levinas's analyses that they fully appreciate the
reality of violence. He keenly recognizes that an adequate account of alterity
is needed in order to render this reality intelligible. A conception of alterity
which acknowledges that some of our experiences do not submit to our
representational capacities, that some experiences resist what we can know
or think about them, is required to explain the inevitable encroachment of
bodily degeneration and death, for instance. Death comes from elsewhere,
and too quickly to register its face. Levinas writes in Totality and Infinity
(224/199 - 200):
The notion of a mortal but temporal being, apprehended
in the will ... differs fundamentally from every causality
leading to the idea of the causa sui. Such a being is exposed,
but also opposed to violence. Violence does not befall it as
an accident that befalls a sovereign freedom. The hold that
violence has over this being - the mortality of this being - is
the primordial fact.366
There is no need, however, to accept the susceptibility of the body as a
fundamental vulnerability. Of course, it is that too. But it is also a capacity
to be affected with joy or pleasure and to have the body enabled, in its
posture and kinaesthetic responses, by the sensations it receives from the
other. It is a capacity to be challenged by the outside, incited to exceed its
limits and gather strength or power. In short, the sensitivity of the body is
ambivalent a priori.
Our bodies are simultaneously constituted by ambivalence and alterity.
This lesson is in Levinas as well as Merleau - Ponty. "Merleau - Ponty," writes
Dan Zahavi, "can describe embodied self - awareness as a presentiment of
the Other - the Other appears on the horizon of this self - experience - and
the experience of the Other as an echo of one's own bodily constitution."
For Merleau - Ponty, the Other can be received as such because its exteriority
mirrors my own exteriority. "The reason I can experience Others is because
I am never so close to myself that the Other is completely and radically
foreign and inaccessible. I am always already a stranger to myself and
therefore open to Others."367 It is not necessary for alterity to be a matter
of pure transcendence - a transcendence, it must be said, whose alignment
with humanism, anthropocentrism, and a particular religious tradition
excludes the nonhuman from ethical consideration368 - for it to command
ethical consideration. That our relation with otherness is ambivalent, and
that we can be enabled as well as disabled by that which we rely upon for
our very being, is enough to give us pause.
It is true that Levinas gives a richer, more complex description of
alterity than Merleau - Ponty. As well, he does much, contra Cartesian and
Kantian forms of subjectivity, to give a corporeal form to the self and,
consequently, the ethical imperative. Moreover, he gives us an account of
the immanent genesis of the subject that rivals that of Deleuze. But in the
process he sacrifices the actually ambivalent experience of embodiment in
the name of a transcendental responsibility whose hyperbolic foundation
leads to extreme claims about the vulnerability of the subject. This
hyperbole respects the reality of sensation while at the same time betraying
the plasticity of our sensibility. To avoid the ethical exclusivity of Levinas's
anthropocentrism, which is most pronounced in the moral privilege he
grants to human others, and to remain true to the ambivalence of our
sensuous existence, it is advisable for us to develop a more mundane and
faithful immanent form of the imperative, situating its force in the sensuous
economy in which existents, objects, elements, and environments interact.369
For this we need a conception of embodiment that avoids the excesses of
both Merleau - Ponty and Levinas. That is, we need an adequate account of
the plasticity of the body.
Chapter 5
On Aesthetic Plasticity
...we should try to discover how it is that subjects are
gradually, progressively, really and materially constituted
through a multiplicity of organisms, forces, energies,
materials, desires, thoughts, etc.
Foucault, "Two Lectures"
...sensation is the master of deformations, the agent of bodily
deformations.
Deleuze, Francis Bacon
The argument so far has followed two general, intertwined trajectories:
one critical, the other constructive. The critical thread has argued that the
two visions of embodiment offered by Merleau - Ponty and Levinas are
inadequate for thinking how our bodies actually interact with the material
world. The constructive thread has assembled evidence which suggests that
both phenomenologists were cognizant of the function that sensation plays
in the constitution of experience and identity. The nature and function of
sensation, along with its difference from perception, has been adduced. In
this chapter I build upon the analyses of sensation and sensing given by
Merleau - Ponty and Levinas in order to develop an account of embodiment
that reconciles the extremes of their respective views. Instead of reversibility
and susceptibility, my view features the plasticity of the body and argues
that the dynamism of plasticity is more true to the aesthetic dimension of
existence and the transactional nature of intercorporeal encounters.
Methodologically speaking, there is more than one way to defend
the body's plasticity. Because the notion of plasticity is tacitly at work in
poststructuralist philosophers like Foucault and Deleuze, and increasingly
visible in the work of embodied cognition theorists, a wholesale assault on
the phenomenological body could be launched from a number of non - 
phenomenological camps. An antagonism of this sort could be construed
as a clash between modern and postmodern views of the body.370 Such a
neat division, however, does not do justice to the degree of overlap which
obtains between phenomenological and non - phenomenological accounts
of embodiment. This is why I have chosen for my defense of plasticity to
synthesize the insights of Merleau - Ponty and Levinas with a number of
non - phenomenologists, from Spinoza, James, and Dewey to Mark Johnson,
Manuel DeLanda, and Catherine Malabou. It should also be noted that
what I find most productive in the phenomenologists is not always what
they produce from a phenomenological perspective. In fact, as I have
noted in earlier chapters, it is often the phenomenological method itself
which constrains some of the most fertile insights stumbled upon by
Merleau - Ponty and Levinas, and what troubles any attempt to synthesize
phenomenology with other approaches to embodiment. Oftentimes it is
when these two thinkers are on the verge of transgressing the strictures
of phenomenology that their thinking takes off in metaphysically
daring directions.
The Meaning of Plasticity I
What does it mean for a body to be plastic and why is it necessary to
conceive the body in this way? The term has a popular aesthetic meaning,
as when we talk about "plastic surgery" or the "plastic arts." But I am
not specifically concerned with either of these meanings. When I speak
about plasticity I intend the meaning that is now common currency in
the discourse of contemporary neuroscience, as well as cognitive and
evolutionary theory. I first ran across the term in a text closer to my home
discipline, that is, while reading the philosophical psychology of William
James, who writes in The Principles of Psychology that plasticity broadly
"means the possession of a structure weak enough to yield to an influence,
but strong enough not to yield all at once. Each relatively stable phase of
equilibrium in such a structure is marked by what we may call a new set of
habits."371 Plasticity in James's sense not only provides a useful means of
imagining the dynamics of brain and body, it also offers a way to think the
dynamic structural integrity of the embodied subject. When I use the term
"integrity" I do not mean it in the moral sense, but as someone who says,
"The integrity of the building has been compromised by the earthquake."
The analogy between bodies and buildings is deliberate here. It is meant
to suggest the reciprocal determination of body and building, and the
structural homology of individual and environment.
Assuming with Merleau - Ponty that we simply are our bodies, we are
absolved from positing a self - identical core of subjectivity which would
remain untouched throughout any and all intercorporeal engagements,
be they social, physical, or cultural. Plasticity helps us work through many
of the questions that arise when we identify the subject with the body. In
the end the plastic body gives us a fully immanent version of subjectivity
without compelling us to grant the body an indeterminate fluidity that
would make it difficult to explain how stability emerges and is maintained.
There are empirical and practical reasons for favoring plasticity over
reversibility or susceptibility as the defining feature of the body. First, the
body disintegrates, decays, and dies. Its relation to other bodies - and
sometimes to itself, as in the case of autoimmune disorders - is often
violent, as I have argued. Innumerable examples of irreversible situations
can be given. These are defined by the powerlessness of human beings in
the face of a materiality which burdens or exceeds them. As Ronald Bruzina
expresses it, "human powerlessness is fundamentally that of being subject
to structures around and within itself that are not of a human individual's
own doing."372 A piano is pushed out a window and crushes someone on
the sidewalk below. An airplane plunges into the ocean and is obliterated
along with all of its passengers. These are situations wherein the bodies
involved are not on the verge of reversal: the person on the sidewalk has no
chance of becoming the crusher, nor will the piano become the crushed,
although it will suffer some damage upon impact. Perhaps only the sidewalk
will suffer negligible harm, its capacity for resistance being greater than
the unfortunate bystander or instrument. The airline passengers will have
their perceptual capacities extinguished, and in a sense their bodies will
die, but the material reality which destroyed them will remain. Perhaps the
perceptual situation is reversible, but asymmetrical physical contact between
bodies powerful and powerless is certainly not. Our bodies, I would contend,
sense this asymmetry in themselves and build upon it when forming bonds
with other bodies.373
Now, I am not so foolish as to think that the images of falling pianos
and plunging airplanes alone stand as refutations of constructivist idealism
or correlationism. They are offered here, in one respect, as a metaphor of
the intractability of the material world. Additionally, they work to unsettle
our comfort with an idealism or phenomenology whose conventional
images portray an inquisitive observer gazing intently on some medium - 
sized domestic object. Objects, however, are not always so wieldy. And if
Meillassoux's argument for the necessity of contingency holds, neither
are the very laws governing the existence of these objects.374 In short, we
have reason to distrust the stability of appearance and the synchrony of
body and world.
Considered from a different angle the body is indeed a resilient thing.
It resists disintegration by nourishing itself, defends itself from assault, and
deftly assembles resources which help it postpone death. It fashions clothes
and designs shelters, devises means of repairing itself when wounded, and
takes measures to prevent further wounding. It gathers these resources from
its environment and from others; it is enabled by otherness just as much as it
can be disabled by it. It is certainly true that tragedy may befall the body at
any moment, so it is indeed a susceptible entity. But given the extraordinary
nature of tragedy, the threat of violence cannot be the ground upon which
the body is defined as a body. It is much more than a passivity: it preserves
itself and pushes itself to become more powerful; it adapts and evolves,
yes, but it also destroys and imposes form. These are Nietzsche's lessons.375
That the body is threatened by violence and prone to disintegration, but at
the same time enabled by what resists its efforts and movement, leads us
necessarily to consider the ethics and politics of plasticity.
A body whose integrity is plastic is definable by its thresholds. This
means, as we saw with Merleau - Ponty's notion of style, that its identity is
constantly shifting and constituted by an indefinite and fragile disposition.
This disposition will either display typical effects, or the potential for these
effects will be virtually present, harbored in the body and actualizable under
the right conditions.376 Shifts in identity or the compromising of bodily
integrity will be induced by a breakdown in the body's own maintenance
or by pressures exerted on its constitution by an external force. In both
cases what gets compromised is an alliance maintained between a collective
of bodies functioning together as a singular body (a friendship, political
demonstration, or soccer team) and conspiring together to reciprocally
determine each individual body's identity. Such a view of identity obliges us
to imagine the substance of identity as fleeting and dependent rather than
enduring and self - sufficient. Individuals enjoy only a transitory autonomy, a
limited immunity from degeneration. As Mach asserts, "The ego is as little
absolutely permanent as are bodies. That which we so much dread in death,
the annihilation of our permanency, actually occurs in life in abundant
measure."377 The meaning of death is likewise reoriented by this definition
of identity, which is why the hypothetical victims of the plane crash example
can be said to die only "in a sense." One may die without actually becoming
a corpse, but one may become a corpse without technically dying.378
Composite Bodies
Spinoza employs the term ratio to describe the dynamic alliance that
composes corporeal identities. He speaks of identity thresholds as ratios
of motion and rest, speed and slowness.379 The body is not merely a figure
or style, but a system of relations governed by a specific principle of
relating, or ratio. Following on his heels Deleuze and Guattari elaborate
the Spinozan conception of bodily identity with concepts like assemblage,
machine, multiplicity, and body without organs. These concepts provide
an understanding of bodily identity that makes no appeal to an immutable
organic (biological, physiological, neuronal) structure; they leave the body
fully open to deformation and reconstitution, and therefore to the aleatory
and to alterity. Spinoza begins to build the plastic body, while Deleuze and
Guattari draw out its complexity.
A body, for Spinoza, is never purely individual in an atomistic sense, for
an individual is always a composite or collective of bodies. What individuates
a body from the single substance (God, or Nature) in his monistic ontology
is the body's effects, which are determined by its singularity. Spinoza defines
a singular thing as a thing that has a finite, determinate existence. "If several
things concur in one act in such a way as to be all together the simultaneous
cause of one effect, I consider them all, in that respect, as one individual."380
In short, an individual is a singularity. A body, then, is individuated as this
body by what it can do or what it can effectuate materially (efficient causes),
psychologically (affects), politically (uprisings, policings), and so forth.
The capacity of the body to create a singular effect, or what we can call the
body's power, is always variable and vulnerable to disintegration because
this power only subsists as long as the collective of bodies working together
to create a singular effect maintain their particular ratio of motion and rest.
Spinoza writes:
When a number of bodies of the same or different magnitude
form close contact with one another through the pressure of
other bodies upon them, or if they are moving at the same or
different rates of speed so as to preserve an unvarying relation
of movement among themselves, these bodies are said to be
united with one another and all together to form one body
or individual thing, which is distinguished from other things
through this union of bodies.381
Now, this ratio is not precise: it is plastic, which is to say its identity is
marked by a precarious formal variability, or threshold of integrity.382 The
form is not what determines the body ultimately, it is the kinetics of the
body's composition that constitutes its individuality. "The important thing,"
Deleuze tells us, is to see individuality "as a complex relation between
differential velocities, between deceleration and acceleration of particles."
This is what Deleuze calls Spinoza's "kinetic proposition."383 Let's call it the
ecological account of bodies.
Deleuze distills the Spinozan problematic of bodies into the question,
What is a body capable of? He poses the problem in this way in order to
suggest two things: (1) to know what a body does is to know what it
is; and (2) the power of the body is unknown to us, so we are far from
fathoming the possibilities for action, change, and enhancement that new
technologies and new modes of collective existence have in store for us. I
am thinking in particular of human - machine interfaces, participatory art,
prostheses, genetic manipulation, and the whole range of what Deleuze
and Guattari call "unnatural participations."384 Deleuze's question also
pinpoints another ontological claim advanced by Spinoza: bodies just are
their capacity to affect and be affected. Deleuze writes, "a body affects other
bodies, or is affected by other bodies; it is this capacity for affecting and
being affected that also defines a body in its individuality."385 This notion of
individuality yields a new method of classifying things, one whose principle
of differentiation is produced immanently. What a body is becomes less
important than what it can do.386
This new method prefers a genetic or evolutionary conception of
form to the ancient hylomorphism. It regards the genesis of form as
initiated by contact between heterogeneous material elements, which
results in multiplicities that endogenously give rise to singular bodies.387
In this ontology the "structure and genesis [of the body] are in principle
indiscernible."388 Dewey's definition of aesthetic form is representative
here: "Form may then be defined as the operation of forces that carry
the experience of an event, object, scene, and situation to its own integral
fulfillment."389 It is crucial that this formulation acknowledges the priority of
circumstance over teleology in the determination of structure, and locates its
genesis in the materials and energies that compose an aesthetic event. The
event, at bottom, is rhythmic.390 Similarly, Deleuze writes of how
relations of speed and slowness are realized according to
circumstances, and the way in which these capacities for being
affected are filled. For they always are, but in different ways,
depending on whether the present affects threaten the thing
(diminish its power, slow it down, reduce it to the minimum),
or strengthen, accelerate, and increase it: poison or food? - 
with all the complications, since a poison can be a food for
part of the thing considered.391
The point here is that the maintenance of corporeal identity is not only a
matter of intersubjective/intercorporeal relations. Identity is also dependent
on environmental conditions and the nourishment they provide (or fail to
provide) - the ambivalence of the environment is recognized as fundamental
to corporeal power and action.
One of the advantages of working with the Spinozan definition of
bodies endorsed by Deleuze is that it frees us from entrenched binaries like
artificial/natural, animate/inanimate, organic/inorganic, sentient/insentient.
For Spinoza and Deleuze all bodies belong to the same ontological
plane and can be evaluated in terms that do not force us to distinguish
between, say, the human and nonhuman or living and nonliving. This is the
advantage of a "flat ontology" of bodies.392 As a consequence of undoing
old binaries we are free to imagine new composite bodies and, therefore,
new possibilities for collective experience and bodily identity. Hybridity and
community become the norm. As Elizabeth Grosz puts it,
[Deleuze and Guattari] provide an altogether different way
of understanding the body in its connections with other
bodies, both human and nonhuman, animate and inanimate,
linking organs and biological processes to material objects
and social practices while refusing to subordinate the body to
a unity or a homogeneity of the kind provided by the body's
subordination to consciousness or to biological organization.
Following Spinoza, the body is regarded as neither a locus
for a consciousness nor an organically determined entity; it
is understood more in terms of what it can do, the things it
can perform, the linkages it establishes, the transformations
and becomings it undergoes, and the machinic connections
it forms with other bodies, what it can link with, how it can
proliferate its capacities....393
The model of embodiment described by Grosz regards the body, in Deleuze
and Guattari's language, as a "machinic assemblage." This concept is
democratic insofar as it counts a wide range of phenomena as bodies and
refrains from privileging one kind of body or relation over another. There
is nothing special about a naturally occurring body; human bodies are not
elevated above their vegetal counterparts. Any body type can join forces
with a different body type and initiate new identities, new effects. Corporeal
difference is a matter of degrees of complexity; what matters most is the
effects and affects produced by the body, irrespective of its compositional
heritage. The concept of assemblage has far - reaching consequences for
ecological thinking.
Assemblages and Machines
There is an assemblage theory of bodies available in the literature on
embodied/enactive cognition. Take the work of Andy Clark. In Being
There Clark develops the concept of "scaffolding" in order to demonstrate
that our minds are not locked in our heads, but extended throughout the
interobjective environment. The external environment provides support,
scaffolding, for the body in countless forms, from simple implements like
pencils, paper, and photographs to languages and digital storage devices.
This way of thinking is common to the "extended mind" hypothesis. As
Clark argues, "these external structures function so as to complement our
individual cognitive profiles and to diffuse human reason across wider
and wider social and physical networks whose collective computations
exhibit their own special dynamics and properties."394 Noë includes a
helpful discussion of virtual representation that relies on something like
scaffolding when he writes, "Off - loading internal processing onto the world
simplifies our cognitive lives and makes good engineering and evolutionary
sense."395 Scaffolding serves as the network within which individuals work
out solutions to problems, but from what we have said so far, it would be
misleading to regard it as "external" to the body. And this is Clark's point:
individuals cannot be understood as standing apart from the scaffolding
that supports their behavior - they are extended throughout, and in a real
sense emerge out of or are the scaffolding of their environment.396 The
extended mind's plasticity is what allows the body to adaptively integrate
and design scaffolding that aids in problem - solving. Understanding how
our brains design and inhabit the vast assemblage of networks, institutions,
societies, and myriad dynamic systems in society is the present task of
cognitive science.397
The assemblage theory of bodies forms the basis of what Jane Bennett
calls "distributive" or "confederate" agency. In her view agency in an
assemblage is "distributed across an ontologically heterogeneous field,
rather than being a capacity localized in a human body or in a collective
produced (only) by human efforts."398 Agency is here equivalent to efficacy.
Any efficacious thing qualifies as an agent, which means that any thing
whatsoever that makes a difference in the world possesses agency, even if
that thing cannot be cited as the source of its agency. Since every thing
makes some difference, however small, every thing bears the mark of
agency.399 Bennett writes in Vibrant Matter:
This understanding of agency does not deny the existence
of that thrust called intentionality, but it does see it as less
definitive of outcomes. It loosens the connections between
efficacy and the moral subject, bringing efficacy closer to the
idea of the power to make a difference that calls for response.
And this power, I contend along with Spinoza and others, is a
power possessed by nonhuman bodies too.400
This radically democratic theory of bodies disintegrates the plausibility
of classical liberal autonomy and disperses responsibility across the entire
field of being.
Assemblages are essentially multiplicities whose identity is determined
by the unified effects they produce. Their identity is in their plurality. If
bodies are assemblages, then they are less like fixed structures and more like
heterogeneous events that derive their consistency/integrity from a certain
threshold for change. This threshold is governed by the active conjunctions
which make up the assemblage. Assemblages are always provisional, non - 
hierarchical, and precariously organized.401 They subsist only as long as they
actively maintain their constitutive ratio of motion and rest, that is, their
intensity.402 Following my unorthodox reading of Levinas in the last chapter
I would insist that this process occurs at the level of sensibility. An intensity
is a bodily event - a passion, affection, sensation - directly related to the
"capacity to enter into relations of movement and rest," as Massumi puts
it.403 Intensity differentiates the body's power, makes it stand out, and allows
it to take up a position. Intensity can be generated in myriad ways and
with a variety of inorganic and organic components. Whatever accumulates
can increase in intensity. Think of a wolf pack or a school of fish darting
through the sea. These are natural events, and as such would seem to be
understandable only as governed by fixed natural law. As assemblages,
however, this is not necessarily the case. Assemblages are dynamic unities,
immanently organized and constructed ad hoc - haecceities.
Deleuze and Guattari conscript the medieval concept of haecceity
because it allows them to think identity and individuation in terms of events,
intensities, and becoming. A haecceity, in short, is a specific "accidental
form."404 That is, it is a historically emergent and singular form. It contrasts
clearly with the notion of substance, substantial form, person, subject, thing,
and so forth, each of which is held to be self - contained and in some sense
necessary unto itself. Thinking along with Spinoza they explain how one
defines the body as a haecceity, here presented in cartographic terms:
A body is not defined by the form that determines it nor as a
determinate substance or subject nor by the organs it possesses
or the functions it fulfills. On the plane of consistency, a body
is defined only by a longitude and a latitude: in other words
the sum total of the material elements belonging to it under
given relations of movement and rest, speed and slowness
(longitude); the sum total of the intensive affects it is capable
of at a given power or degree of potential (latitude). Nothing
but affects and local movements, differential speeds.405
The concept of haecceity enables us to think of individuation, and therefore
identity, as a completely contingent intercorporeity or event of plasticity.
It helps us escape the substance - ontological view that sees historical
emergence as inessential to identity. It also aids us in articulating a theory
of identity which balances the fluid as well as (meta)stable elements of
the body, and refers these elements to the immanence of cosmological,
evolutionary, and human history.406 Following Spinoza, Deleuze and
Guattari provide a number of resources for thinking corporeal plasticity,
although at times they push the fluidity of their notion of a "body
without organs" to an untenable extreme. Even though the body can
attempt to escape its organic constitution, it is never completely devoid of
organization or, at least, a minimal set of habits. The body without organs
remains an ideal.
Whether or not a body without organs is achievable, what we have seen
open up so far in this chapter is the potential meaning of "individual" and
"body." What a body is, as well as what it can do, all of a sudden become
radically open questions. The body's power becomes free to proliferate, and
the individual free to develop, but always under the precarious and singular
ecological conditions regulating the assemblage of bodies. The practical
consequences of conceiving the body in this way will become clearer as
we progress.
Equally important to the Deleuzean/Guattarian development of the
composite body, or assemblage, is its machinic feature. In Anti - Oedipus
a machine is defined as what introduces interruptions into otherwise
continuous flows of material (hyle): a machine is "a system of interruptions
or breaks." The orifices of our bodies are machines because they interrupt
the flow of air (mouth) and the flow of sound (ear) and the flow of feces
(anus).407 The sensory apparatus of our bodies can be seen as a complex
machine insofar as the senses function as a multifaceted device for cutting
up the manifold of sensory material flowing through the body. At the same
time as it cuts the machinic body is apt to create new linkages, that is, new
assemblages composed of intensive relations and affective transactions.
Again, these linkages are ad hoc, a form of bricolage that potentially, if
Clark is correct, opens our bodies to "episodes of deep and transformative
restructuring, in which new equipment (both physical and 'mental') can
become quite literally incorporated into the thinking and acting systems that
we identify as minds and persons."408
In explicating his assemblage theory of society Manuel DeLanda
includes a helpful illustration of the formation of personal identity. If
territorialization denotes a process that increases the internal homogeneity
of a person's corporeal identity, then identity "may be deterritorialized
not only by loss of stability but also by augmentation of capacities."
The following images bring to life the transformative potential of the
machinic body:
When a young child learns to swim or ride a bicycle, for
example, a new world suddenly opens up for experience,
filled with new impressions and ideas. The new skill is
deterritorializing to the extent that it allows the child to
break with past routine by venturing away from home in a
new vehicle, or inhabiting previously forbidden spaces like
the ocean. New skills, in short, increase one's capacity to
affect and be affected, or to put it differently, increase one's
capacities to enter into novel assemblages, the assemblage that
the human body forms with a bicycle, a piece of solid ground
and a gravitational field, for example.409
Machines engage in transactions that assemble "disparate elements."
This means that they carve into and interface with material from diverse
ontological domains. Think of a soldier with a titanium prosthetic arm or a
person with an online avatar. Think of a kid whose pleasure is generated by
an imaginary friend or videogame. Think of a guy whose masochistic desires
require leather or stone or plants for him to reach sexual satisfaction.410
These people are machines; their identity, materially composite.
There is a certain technique or artisanship to the machinic process,
one which the body already possesses insofar as it effortlessly hooks into
environments that produce natural, artificial, physical, linguistic, imaginary,
and abstract effects.411 Since the body is never without a nourishing
environment composed of disparate elements, or prostheses/tools, we
could reasonably assert that it takes no stretch of the imagination to see
that the human body just is a complex machine, if not in La Mettrie's sense,
then definitely in Deleuze and Guattari's. Its machinic infrastructure is
constructed by a team of physical, phenomenological, and ecological agents
united by a principle of individuation proper to neither domain in particular.
Although they recognize the machinic potential of the body, it seems to me
that both Levinas and Merleau - Ponty refuse to endorse the view that the
body is nothing more than a complex machine. Both phenomenologists
recognize that subjects are partially constituted by their sociolinguistic,
historical, and physical milieus, but the thesis affirming that the structure of
the subject is completely dependent on a field of material forces that literally
assemble the identity of the body is missing from their texts.412
The Meaning of Plasticity II
Before going any further I want to gather a fuller account of the meaning
of plasticity and suggest some of its implications for embodiment and
identity theory. This will enable us to understand the machinic body in its
plasticity and see how the integration of body and environment is critical to
understanding corporeal plasticity. Additionally, it will prepare us to see how
the body's plasticity is determined by its aesthetic constitution, that is, the
history of its sensory apparatus.
If it is at least plausible to claim that the modern account of embodiment
is marked by the view that there is a substantial core or immutable structure
to the body, whereas the postmodern account is characterized by a desire
to see the body vanish into an anonymous field of desire, pleasure, and flux,
then the concept of plasticity belongs to neither historical period.413 Given
this historical partition it would seem that Merleau - Ponty belongs in neither
the modern nor postmodern camp, for he downplays bodily anonymity just
as much as he contests the modernist's substance ontology. Regardless, he
does not deliver us a plastic body. The dynamic of his reversible body is
more akin to the mechanics of elasticity. Elasticity can be understood by
considering a rubber band. The rubber band is flexible and deformable,
but in the absence of resistance or external force it tends toward a specific
formal state. Accordingly, elasticity does not properly describe a structure
open to permanent deformation. Permanent deformation means breakage
and the elimination of the precise disposition which constitutes the rubber
band's elasticity. The disappearance of its elasticity is equivalent to death
for the rubber band. In other words, its structure is not identical to its
historical genesis. From the perspective of elasticity the band's structure
is prescribed by the rubber band type. Similarly for Merleau - Ponty's lived
body: its structure tends toward a certain coherence that is prescribed
by the lived body type. Insofar as the lived body is flexible within certain
normative limits, the Merleau - Pontyan body is best conceived on the model
of elasticity.
Merleau - Ponty's lived body possesses a number of structural features
which exhibit a dispositional elasticity, and whose absence would entail the
impossibility of subjectivity. These include the features of consciousness
(for instance: intentionality, perspectival perception), the body schema,
the movement of transcendence or ability (the "I can," which effectively
operates as a transcendental norm and therefore makes disability a derivative
mode of comportment), and the general tendency toward convergence
attributed to perception.414 Throughout each of its engagements with the
world, other bodies, alterity in general, the reversible body maintains its
relative stability with a number of quasi - transcendent, admittedly malleable,
structures. They are not indefinitely malleable, however, which would render
them plastic. If anything, their malleability is always seeking to return to the
equilibrium point which we defined earlier as body - world synchronization.
Plasticity, on the other hand, pursues no such telos.
Merleau - Ponty's view of embodiment is accomplished only by
quarantining the objective body and suspending the question of how its
physiology and materiality interfere with, as well as support, the lived
body's phenomenological world of perception. As I have been arguing, what
threatens to undo or undermine the body's elasticity is the sensory field's
immediate contact with the body's sensorium, along with the material
composition of the body more generally. In other words, the anonymous
aesthetic life of the body is the locus of deformation and disfiguration,
or what Panagia calls a "zone of indistinction."415 This is not to say that
Merleau - Ponty lacks any notion of plasticity. On the contrary, both style
and habit (perhaps the body schema, too?) display a marked plasticity. My
point is that his text runs the risk of pathologizing plasticity and normalizing
elasticity, and this in the interest of drawing a distinction - fundamental
in his view - between the lived body and the objective body. We must
take care to recognize the plasticity of the phenomenal, as well as the
material, levels and not to regard these two levels as regulated by different
ontological principles.
Plasticity contrasts, and is designed to replace, both infinite malleability
and immutable substantiality. It is, at bottom, neither stability nor instability,
but metastability. Remarking on current brain research, Catherine
Malabou writes that
the word plasticity has two basic senses: it means at once the
capacity to receive form (clay is called "plastic," for example)
and the capacity to give form (as in the plastic arts or in plastic
surgery). Talking about the plasticity of the brain thus amounts
to thinking of the brain as something modifiable, "formable,"
and formative at the same time.416
This conception of plasticity is not meant to suggest that the brain is merely
flexible, for as Malabou goes on to show, the brain is at once prone to
historical deformations and capable to effecting historical deformations.
To be flexible is to receive a form or impression, to be able
to fold oneself, to take the fold, not to give it. To be docile, to
not explode. Indeed, what flexibility lacks is the resource of
giving form, the power to create, to invent or even to erase an
impression, the power to style. Flexibility is plasticity minus
its genius.417
The brain is docile to a degree, but this docility is simultaneously
tempered by tolerance and creation, taken together as a single trait:
creative tolerance. Our brains are, to an extent, evolutionarily determined,
but it is this inescapable determination that allows for "a possible margin
of improvisation" that is at once singularly determined and historically
singularizing.418 Every body's experience will likewise be singular, which
means that no two bodies are capable of the same encounters.
Plasticity describes the simultaneous determinacy and indeterminacy of
morphogenesis. In other words, it names the potential of the body to have
its initial determination transformed indefinitely.419 Even if it is granted that
the human brain displays a universal anatomy, or that its physical makeup
is structurally invariable, learning and memory - history in general - 
guarantees that no two brains will be the same. In their history "repetition
and habit play a considerable role, and this reveals that the response of a
nervous circuit is never fixed. Plasticity thus adds the functions of artist
and instructor in freedom and autonomy to its role as sculptor," argues
Malabou.420 The singular identity of an individual brain emerges from that
gap opened up between freedom and determination, which is to say, in the
space of history. The constitution of the individual is determined by how the
body's mechanisms are transformed by the experiences it enacts or suffers.
Plasticity is the "eventlike dimension of the mechanical," which
between determinism and freedom, designates all the types
of transformation deployed between the closed meaning
of plasticity (the definitive character of form) and its open
meaning (the malleability of form). It does this to such a
degree that cerebral systems today appear as self - sculpted
structures that, without being elastic or polymorphic, still
tolerate constant self - reworking, differences in destiny, and the
fashioning of a singular identity.421
Our brains are machines, but machines that repair themselves and
reprogram themselves according to information they receive from their
surroundings. The identities they achieve strike a balance between passivity
and activity, infinite possibility and finite determination. At the end of the
day, however, their constitution gives way to the exigencies of the material
world, leaving only the trace of their singular destiny and returning to the
anonymous material of being.
A similar line of thinking is pursued in Foucault's work on history and
embodiment. He chooses "docility" to describe the body invested with
power and disciplinary techniques, but the manner in which he thinks
docility resonates with the concept of plasticity. The docile bodies populating
Discipline and Punish seem, on the one hand, merely pliable, or "flexible"
in Malabou's sense. They are made to take on a pre - programmed form,
rendered automatic or mechanical (territorialized) by the machinations of
state power or biopower. Foucault writes of how
the soldier has become something that can be made; out
of formless clay, an inapt body, the machine required can
be constructed; posture is gradually corrected; a calculated
constraint runs slowly through each part of the body,
mastering it, making it pliable, ready at all times, turning
silently into the automatism of habit.422
But this is only half the story. The body would not take on this apparent
automatism were it not for its capacity to take on any number of historically
determined forms. When Foucault says that the body has to be broken
down and rearranged, he is acknowledging that disciplinary techniques
must grapple with corporeal determinations that offer resistance and harbor
their own power. Oksala has pointed out, against Butler and others, that
it is the body as formed which offers its own resistances to reformation.423
In Foucault's words, "Discipline increases the forces of the body ... and
diminishes these same forces.... In short, it dissociates power from the
body" and transforms the body into an "aptitude" or "capacity."424 Recalling
James's definition of plasticity, the disciplined body is given a structure
strong enough to resist power, but weak enough to yield to a sufficiently
technical and more intense power.
The event - like structure of the body is given further expression in
"Nietzsche, Genealogy, History," where Foucault explicitly rejects the view
that the body is an ahistorical, physiologically - determined entity: "The body
is molded by a great many distinct regimes; it is broken down by the rhythms
of work, rest, and holidays; it is poisoned by food or values, through eating
habits or moral laws; it constructs resistances." Put negatively, its history is
"without constants."425 Formulated positively: the body is plastic. This does
not mean that the body is reducible to a series of oppressive events, or that
the forms it assumes do not constitute real dispositions or determinate
capacities for action. It means that any particular disposition is contingent
and susceptible to change, whereas dispositional plasticity is structurally
basic to embodiment.426
Malabou's investigation of plasticity implicitly follows, in the
philosophical tradition, the naturalistic insights of James and Dewey. She
rarely, if ever, writes about either thinker. She discovers plasticity in Hegel;
I have been arguing that it is basic to Spinozism too, a point she notes in
Ontology of the Accident.427 What she says about the brain can be profitably
broadened to describe the constitution of the body. This does not lead
to a reductive physicalism. Phenomenology, and the phenomenological
sympathies of the pragmatists, help us avoid that course. For instance,
Bernard Andrieu, following Francisco Varela and others, contributes to
a program called "neurophenomenology," which focuses on the material
genesis and plasticity of cognition while considering equally legitimate the
phenomenological and neuroscientific descriptions of this process. Central
to this "dynamic materialism" is an updated notion of Merleau - Ponty's
concept of flesh, which Andrieu says "defines the historic construction
of the nervous system through the interaction of the body with the world
and the progressive embodiment of these incorporations."428 The temporal
dimension of the construction of the body is linked to the principle
of plasticity, which says that the body "must first be understood as an
interaction with its environment because it is itself the receptive matter both
informed and informing."429 Merleau - Ponty may not have been willing to
subscribe to this materialist program for the flesh, but his thinking does
exhibit sympathy for the kind of mutual formation described by Andrieu
and Malabou. Once again, this is evident in his conception of habit.
Habit, Circuit, Territory
Recall that for Merleau - Ponty habits are like the body's original prostheses.
The idea that habit is first nature is in fact a point found in James, although
the American is not Merleau - Ponty's source. Habits offer a metastability to
the body without fixing it absolutely. They render the body automatic to a
degree, but this automatism is never complete. There is some room left for
freedom, but what this freedom entails is left for discussion in the following
chapter. The body is not born with a set of specific habits, but almost
immediately adopts habits which endow it with a specific integrity and allow
it to negotiate its situations with relative ease.
Habits belong among the historical a priori which condition perception
and action; they arrange and rearrange the body schema, while leaving the
body open to receive new habits.430 Habits are not just passively received,
however: they are projected out into the environment as actions whose
repetition wears down the environment in specific ways. Conversely,
repetition wears upon the actor. The possibilities for habituation are limited
by the effects of habit introduced into the layout of the environment. As
Casey writes, the "power of orientation" (Merleau - Ponty) we call our habitus
is correlated to the kinaesthetic situation we call our habitat.431 Now, I
think a general conception of habit is essential for understanding corporeal
plasticity. In fact, we might say that habit is emblematic of plasticity, but it
is not sufficient to keep our discussion of habit at the level of perception,
without serious consideration of its material aspect. Otherwise, habit
becomes a structure of the body that deals with material conditions, while
remaining immaterial itself. We saw in our earlier discussion that an account
of habit is provided by the pragmatists and we turn to them now to consider
habit from a naturalistic perspective, one which is not incompatible with,
but rather supplemental to, the phenomenological.
In James's The Principles of Psychology habituation takes hold in the
neural network of the brain. And it is precisely this network's plasticity that
enables the body to acquire habits. The physics of plasticity, in this case,
implies that the nervous system is susceptible to a series of habit sets which
lend it its structure at a given historical point. Each successive phase of the
system's development contains a specific integrity which resists alteration
while at the same time remaining susceptible to environmental influence.432
The influence of the body's sensory life carves pathways into its nervous
system, predisposing it to particular patterns of behavior which correspond
to these pathways.433 We now know that these pathways are the locus of
the body schema, which Clark describes as "a suite of neural settings that
implicitly (and non - consciously) define a body in terms of its capabilities
for action...."434 The plasticity of the neural network is what enables the
body schema to change over time as it genuinely incorporates, and not merely
uses, the instruments that "dilate" (Merleau - Ponty's term) the body - 
subject's world.
Habits, then, exhibit internal/physiological and external/environmental
aspects.435 Neither of these can be reduced when considering the identity of
the body. On the one hand, the neural pathways recorded in the material of
the body physically determine the range of actions and passions the body
is capable of at any given time. On the other hand, the range of behaviors
the body exhibits at a specified point in its life determine its style and make
it recognizable as the individual it is. The variability of this style - which
may result from self - reflection or environmental changes, for instance - 
introduces a degree of indeterminacy that can effect an alteration of the
body's habit set.
Allowing for the reality of creativity, we must not overestimate the
power of the will to alter the body's habits. When the will is set against the
force of habit as the agent of rehabituation - and this is even more the case
when habit is localized in the brain - one runs the risk of reinforcing the
dualism of master mind and servant body. Carlisle leans in this direction
by suggesting "awareness" as the remedy for undesirable habits. She
writes, "Habits carry a momentum that must be countered by an opposing
medium."436 Awareness involves attending to the transitive sensations left
unremarked in habitual action. It contains "the power to unconceal habits,
and so to weaken and eventually unravel them." But if sensations actually
operate below the level of perception, or attention, then the possibility of
bringing them to attention becomes suspect, if not impossible, as does the
freedom to choose between awareness or obliviousness to "one's living,
breathing experience."437 The covert nature of sensation leaves consciousness
in a state of perpetual unawareness. The option of bringing sensation, and
the habits informed by it, to consciousness is thereforecompromised.
Just as the neural network is a kind of circuit along which habits flow, the
behavioral aspect of habits can also be regarded as a circuit. Doing so allows
us to see how the habits each one of us adopts can come to constitute who
we are at the most fundamental level.
Habits economize our actions by locking us into certain behavioral
patterns, while also releasing our attention to explore new modes of action.
James's description of habitual circuits of behavior is as mechanical as it
is phenomenological. "In action grown habitual, what instigates each new
muscular contraction to take place in its appointed order is not a thought
or a perception, but the sensation occasioned by the muscular contraction
just finished."438 The idea here is that habits are chains of sensations and
muscular responses, set in motion by a single impulse. The sensations occur
below the level of conscious attention, but this does not mean that they are
not registered by the body. Indeed, they are situated somewhere between the
physiological and phenomenological: "that they are more than unconscious
nerve - currents seems certain, for they catch our attention if they go
wrong."439 Quoting a certain Schneider, James dubs habits "processes of
inattentive feeling."440 We might call them circuits of inattention.
Favoring a more holistic representation of the habitual act, the
phenomenologist will want to downplay the imperceptible and auto - 
reflexive elements of James's description of habit. Interestingly, it is the
phenomenologist who would provide us with an expansive description
of the series of sensations and muscular contractions which comprise a
given habitual behavior. The key difference between the mechanical and
phenomenological accounts of a circuit of behavior rests with the latter's
insistence on the intentionality motivating the circuit and the former's
insistence on sensation as the motor of action. There is no reason why
we cannot regard habits as motivated by intentional aims but proceeding
mechanically, however. To do so we must admit a certain autonomy - 
that is, a degree of unconscious activity - to the sensations propelling
the mechanism.
James's account of habitual circuits leads us to see that our corporeal
identities, insofar as they are comprised of sets of habits, are made up of
a series of responses correlated with a series of sensations. In other words,
our body's integrity is partially determined by the sensory circuits to which
it responds. These circuits have aesthetic, phenomenological, affective, and
unconscious elements. They constitute the largely anonymous substratum
of our everyday lives. Of course we carve out some of our own circuits,
but we just as often adopt them from the rituals and routines of culture.
We may commute, dine, and shop like everyone else, but we might also
invent, collaborate, and produce like no other. These rituals and routines
find themselves recorded in the musculature of our bodies and driven
by the mundane sensations of everyday life. These circuits coalesce into
a system that subtracts from the abundance of incoming sensations and
outgoing efforts required to sustain life. They make up what Schneider calls
our "body's attitude"441 and provide an analogue to what we have called
proprioception. As Massumi shows, the "habitual autopilot" of our daily
navigation is linked to the body's proprioception, and is predominantly a
non - cognitive orienting.442 Our body's attitude, individuality, orientation - in
short, its very animation - emerges from its habitual economy. Everything
hangs on whether the impetus of this economy is intentional, non - 
intentional, or a combination of both.
To better capture the complexity and diversity of our identities, the
notion of circuit can be generalized and applied to all aspects of our
existence. We can speak of political and moral circuits, for example, which
might include the patterns of thought, action, and speech typical of a
particular political ideology or moral framework.443 These circuits, as plastic
structures, display a relative stability. An analysis of any social circuit would
have to include consideration of its sensory and affective content, for these
are what regulate individuals and keeps them attached to the circuit, even
when their attachments result from a diminished or indifferent concern for
the circuit's value. It is arguable that, although we are quasi - automatically
attached to our habits, we remain attached to them only insofar as they
retain a degree of importance for us. Importance can come from the
understanding, yes, but ultimately importance can only dictate our actions if
we are passionate about it.444 What we are passionate about is what gives our
body incomparable pleasure and draws it near, or what infests our body with
frustration, rage, or pain, thus repelling it. In short, our affective responses
keep us locked into a circuit of behavior or induce us to switch to another
circuit. Affects are a currency traded in the habitual economy.
In contrast with the phenomenological notion of an existential "field" we
can think of the totality of the circuits which orient our individual lives as
defining our territory, while considering each individual habit as a milieu.445
These terms work in tandem and derive from the work of Deleuze and
Guattari. A territory is roughly demarcated and abides by a specific set of
laws; it is a stratified and policed assemblage. Habits are stratifications of
the body, while its automatic aspects are symptomatic of its "territorialized"
or "coded" disposition. As DeLanda explains, territorialization is a process
which increases the internal homogeneity of an assemblage. It can be
accomplished through exclusion, profiling, segregation, regulation, and
so forth. Coding is a second reinforcement of homogenization and can
be witnessed in our genes and in our language.446 A milieu, by contrast, is
defined by its instability and liminality: a milieu occurs between two clearly
defined spaces, like a border or threshold, and maintains only a relative or
fleeting stability. While dependent on the homogeneity of its environment,
a habit is like a milieu in that it is susceptible to deformation or
deterritorialization. Habits maintain their integrity by virtue of the stability
of environmental conditions, but they are not fully determined by them.
Deleuze and Guattari consider milieus in terms of rhythm and haecceity,
two concepts we have dealt with already. The unfamiliarity of the concept
of milieu can be mitigated here by comparing it with Dewey's theories of
form and growth. Together they give us a non - phenomenological way of
understanding the sensory link between body and environment. Dewey's
theory focuses on the qualitative and aesthetic dimensions of embodiment
and, not unlike Levinas, offers an account of the alimentary function
of sensation.
Considering how they invest the bodies populating them, we see
that territories, or "territorialities (habitual constellations of affects and
patterns of movement)," are not very different from what we have been
calling circuits.447 A territory lays down laws or codes which organize and
render obedient the bodies inhabiting its space. The affective component of
territoriality is, in John Protevi's words, "inherently political: bodies are part
of an ecosocial matrix of other bodies, affecting them and being affected by
them; affect is part of the basic constitution of bodies politic."448 This is why
we must always ask whether the affective circuits of territories (or bodies
politic) increase or decrease the power of the bodies that inhabit them. What
feels important inside the territory?
Territories gain strength when the qualities of a milieu, or its rhythm,
are forced to express the marks/coordinates of the territory, when the
nomos of the body politic is embodied in the ethos of those bodies which
constitute it. This is a performative act, the signature of the territory.449
Territorialization occurs when an otherwise non - signifying set of qualities
(milieu) is made to signify or represent a particular style: "One puts one's
signature on something just as one plants one's flag on a piece of land."450 A
birdsong, or refrain, works in this way. The birdsong delimits a territory by
marking the sonic boundaries of the bird's property. This is accomplished
by a "little tune" or "melodic formula" (a meme) whose performance enacts
the territorialization. In the same way, our bodies come to function by
innumerable cultural refrains, some of which we enact for ourselves, like the
frightened child who, "gripped with fear, comforts himself by singing under
his breath."451 Like any body whose posture or gesture reproduces the body
language of a particular cultural setting, the child builds a little space of
comfort around him with a familiar sound. The sound shelters him from the
indeterminacy haunting his imagination.
Despite the fixity of territory, bodies and spaces display characteristics
which oppose and undo territorial codes. Improvisation, for instance.
Improvisation, or any chance encounter, is made possible by the "cracks"
in territories which Deleuze and Guattari call milieus. A milieu is like the
unstable and indistinct, but not inconsistent, qualitative dimension of a
territory. In a word, it is the territory's heterogeneity. Just as territorialization
must enlist the qualities of milieus, milieus must rely upon territories for
the formal expression of their individual styles. The dialectical relation
here is not pure, however, because milieus take ontological priority over
territories. "The territory is the product of a territorialization of milieus
and rhythms."452 Milieus bear within themselves rhythms which produce
their identities. The rhythm of a milieu is its own code.453 It must, however,
be noted that - given what has been said about assemblages - this rhythm
is never proper to a milieu, but resonates between two or more milieus.
The rhythm is a haecceity, an intensive threshold which is constantly
produced and reproduced - by a movement of involution - by the difference
or in - between that constitutes the milieu. It is this "difference that is
rhythmic, not the repetition, which nevertheless produces it."454 Milieus
present the transactional space or passage between two heterogeneously
coded stabilities, "the interior milieu of impulses and the exterior milieu of
circumstances,"455 for instance. As a threshold between inside and outside,
a body operates as a milieu and is prone to the same kinds of instability,
determination, co - optation, and coding.
The "Precious Part of Plasticity"
The difficult conceptuality of Deleuze and Guattari can be substituted, at
the risk of oversimplification, with the naturalistic presentation given in
Dewey's work on habit. Following James, Dewey defines habit as a process
that is, in a word, plastic. Dewey explicitly presents two phenomena that are
for the most part only implied by the phenomenologists: material dependence
and material growth. It is true that Levinas gets at these aspects of existence
in his notion of living from..., but his analysis fails to consider dependence
from the perspective of natural life and is virtually silent, as is Merleau - 
Ponty, on the growth of the body.456
In Human Nature and Conduct Dewey speaks about the "plasticity of
impulse," whereas in Democracy and Education he considers growth in terms
of plasticity as well as dependence. In the former text, plasticity prima facie
denotes a state of complete indeterminacy, as though our impulses were
an unrestrained chaos of drives waiting to be channeled into deliberate
behavior. But we quickly learn that plasticity signifies for Dewey an "original
modifiability" that is initially determined by its interactions with the
environment. Plasticity, then, signifies neither pure novelty nor pure docility,
neither activity nor passivity: "the most precious part of plasticity consists
in ability to form habits" which are (1) flexible and (2) able to modify
sedimented customs and institutions, which for Dewey are just embodied
habits.457 Impulses are creative in that they instigate the renewal of habit,
which is itself an ability and an art.458 Habits "are adjustments of the
environment, not merely to it. At the same time, the environment is many,
not one; hence will, disposition, is plural."459 Our habits are as diverse as the
environments to which they respond. Environments take on the dispositions
we impart to them, while habits are symptomatic of how environments have
compelled us to adapt.
Much of this sounds like Merleau - Ponty, and we might have to concede
that some aspects of the lived body bear the mark of plasticity. Especially
with regard to habit, style, and postural schema, there are traces of plasticity
in Merleau - Ponty's body - subject. The growth and disintegration of the body
in its materiality is not a focus of his study, however, and unless we want to
institute a new dualism of objective and subjective corporeality, the structure
of the lived body must be seen as fundamentally material, and therefore
liable to generation and degeneration. Even in "The Child's Relations
with Others" the body is presented as mature and capable. Its habitual
relations are presented as regulated by "a single global phenomenon" (i.e.,
perception). As Merleau - Ponty writes, "the internal characteristics of the
subject always intervene in his way of establishing his relations with what
is outside him. It is never simply the outside which molds him; it is he
himself who takes a position in the face of the external conditions" (Child
108/17). Put otherwise, the existential field solicits and suggests responsive
behavior, it does not determine it. Absent here is the physical growth of
the child, which determines the manner in which he or she receives and
processes - or fails to do so - environmental information. And while it is
true to say that this physical development is never simply a matter of the
outside "molding" the inside, it must be admitted that the internal relation
between subject and object entails, at least initially, an asymmetrical relation
of dependence whereby the subject (child) is deeply susceptible to outside
influence. This dependence signifies the need for growth as well as a state
of immaturity. Neither of these terms should be interpreted negatively,
however. Dependence and immaturity, as Dewey shows, assert their own
productive forces.
Human bodies develop. After development, disintegration. Both stages
can be given positive treatments, provided they are taken on their own terms
rather than dialectically. The child's body is exemplary. Immaturity is not
simply an absent or nascent maturity: immaturity is a power, the capacity
to grow. This capacity is at once dependent and plastic for Dewey. Plasticity
here indicates the "specific adaptability of an immature creature for growth."
This is not equivalent to "a capacity to take on change of form in accord
with external pressure," but means the "power to modify actions on the
basis of the results of prior experiences, the power to develop dispositions.
Without it, the acquisition of habits is impossible."460 Dewey locates the
subject's plasticity below the level of disposition and habit, thus assigning it a
transcendental aspect. But this aspect is nothing more than the volatility of
organic processes. It is not that biology is prior to culture, but that corporeal
structures are emergent, resilient, and pliable. In other words, the condition
of possibility for habit acquisition is experimentation, or the indeterminate
determinacy of a socially embedded impulse and instinct.
Growth comes with the acquisition of habits, which enable independence
and maturity. "Maturation," as Noë writes, "is not so much a process of
self - individuation and detachment as it is one of growing comfortably into
one's environmental situation."461 Independence comes with increased
control of the body, which includes integration and cultivation of the
environment, as well as orientation within it. And it is only when our habits
become mechanized routines, when we get locked into circuits of behavior
or when our bodies become territorialized, that our plasticity is paralyzed.
The tendency toward decreased plasticity, the dissolution of the power to
grow, quickens with age. It is not just a matter of inattention, it is a physical
necessity. This is why James instructs that, in education it is imperative
that we "make our nervous system our ally instead of our enemy." As the
power to efficiently and effortlessly think and act decreases, the exigency
of adaptation and habituation - "the effortless custody of automatism" - 
increases.462
Dewey explicitly links the habituation of the subject to its qualitative
surroundings - the aesthetics of the environment. Our growth depends
on the sensations our bodies exchange with others like and unlike our
own. Like Levinas, Dewey holds that we live from our sensations. We are
organisms whose habits serve to increase "susceptibility, sensitiveness,
responsiveness." An individual's capacity to exist, or their power, is directly
determined by the exchange of old habits for new sensations:
Thus even if we think of habits as so many grooves, the power
to acquire many and varied grooves denotes high sensitivity,
explosiveness. Thereby an old habit, a fixed groove if one
wishes to exaggerate, gets in the way of the process of forming
a new habit while the tendency to form a new one cuts
across some old habit. Hence instability, novelty, emergence
of unexpected and unpredictable combinations. The more
an organism learns - the more, that is, the former terms of
a historic process are retained and integrated in this present
phase - the more it has to learn, in order to keep itself going;
otherwise death and catastrophe.463
Given that sensitivity here entails a capacity to take on and annihilate
form, which is to say, indicates a certain plasticity, increased exposure to
different sensory environments can lead to the sedimentation or explosion
of an individual's ethos (habituated identity, the law of the individual). It
is not so much that life itself is inherently explosive. It is the power of the
organism that is explosive. This power is dictated by the disposition of the
organism, including its set of habitual circuits, state of physical maturation,
and possibilities for experimentation. It is fascinating to note that Dewey
regards death here as the inability of an organism to continue learning. In
other words, death is the extinction of growth, or the absolute slackening of
plasticity. Life, by contrast, is the force which encourages novelty by learning
how to replace old habits with new ones.
Aesthetic Animation
In The Meaning of the Body Johnson shows how important the aesthetic
dimension is for the body to make sense of its environment. He argues that
the aesthetic is usually downplayed in our discussions of experience. This
happens because we take a certain limitation in our knowledge of qualitative
experience to indicate a limitation of experience itself. Put otherwise, we
disregard the qualitative dimension of experience because it belongs to the
difficult - to - articulate affective register, rather than the less unruly perceptual
and cognitive. The present rehabilitation of sensation is motivated by a
desire to redraw the limits of experience. Even phenomenology, Johnson
notes, "has a hard time with the qualitative dimension, for it is easier
to describe the structural aspects of experience than it is to describe felt
qualities. The tendency is thus always to look for the constituting structures
of experience, at the expense of the actual experience of qualities."464
Following Dewey, Johnson shows that qualities - as liminal events occurring
between bodies, as milieus - are felt and, as such, allow the sentience
of the body to discern immanently the meaning of events and objects.
"Once we are struck, caught up, seized," writes Johnson, "only then can
we discriminate elements within our present situation."465 Sensations are
responsible for instigating and giving meaning to the dialogue between
subject and object.
What is it that discriminates? Our bodies. Their sensorimotor and
neural makeup, both the products of material growth, "determine what
stands out, for us, from a situation or scene. Therefore, how we 'take'
objects would change if our bodies, brains, or environments changed
in some radical way."466 Rarely radical in act, our bodies are constantly
adapting to the aesthetic provocations of their surroundings. Only upon
this instigation (sens) are they moved to adapt and make sense of things. As
Johnson concludes,
we are living in and through a growing, changing situation that
opens up toward new possibilities and that is transformed as
it develops. That is the way human meaning works, and none
of this happens without our bodies, or without our embodied
interactions within environments that we inhabit and that
change along with us.467
Our bodies take on the qualitative meanings of their environments. Their
integrity depends on these meanings which first register on their sensibility.
Sensibility regulates their capacity to be formed and deformed by the
aesthetic dimension, for better or worse.
It must be noted that a similar idea is available in Casey's invaluable
work on place. Casey writes of the disorienting effect of wild places or
wilderness on the body. Built places, by contrast, serve to orient and
sustain the properly human dimensions of the body.468 Disorientation in
wild or natural places is, he writes, "often radically independent of human
corporeal intentionality, to the point of challenging and undermining this
intentionality."469 This point is precisely what we indicated as deficient
in Merleau - Ponty's analyses, particularly with respect to his treatment of
violence. What we realize in the wilderness, for Casey, is that body and world
are only reversible in familiar, manageable places. Everyday places. And
yet, the radical independence that wild places present to us is only radical
as an excess of intentional content, as a surplus of meaning. That is, their
independence is only relative to the reach of everyday phenomenological
experience, which means that the source of their disorienting effect can
only be inferred from within the subject - world correlation. Are they really
wild, or do they just appear so? Wild places tell us that the intentional arc
of our bodies does not constitute the world, but the phenomenology of wild
place stops here. It fails to tell us what the excess of intentionality consists
of, what savage power is capable of disorienting the intentional arc.470 As
we have seen, this excess is aesthetic, a surplus of sensations. But this is an
excess that resides in even our most familiar places; we simply fail to notice,
precisely because they are familiar. "Wilderness" is all around us.
Places are liable to orient us as much as disorient us. This is just as true
of built places as wild ones, and it is precisely what makes architectural
design so important, and why specialists are needed to carry out this design
work. Otherwise, disorienting places are more likely to be constructed. My
claim at this point is that disorientation as well as orientation spring from
the sensory environment, not just the sphere of intentionality. Our bodies
receive and respond to environmental directives that cannot become the
object of intentionality. Or, if they can, it is only upon reflection. Because
they contact the body's sensibility directly, they animate us automatically,
and this animation - of which reflection is a part - is always one step
ahead of our intentions. It is in this sense that they exceed the phenomena
of perception and elude our volition. These directives, what Lingis calls
imperatives, are ambivalent. They are volatile. Every place, I would argue,
harbors a volatility because every place is constituted by an aesthetic
dimension with the potential to affect us in ways that accommodate and/or
diminish us.
Environmental Imperatives
Sensations are imperatives. Following Kant's distinction, we could ask: do
sensuous imperatives command hypothetically or categorically?471 As we
pursue our practical aims environmental aesthetics offer numerous scenes,
settings, and pathways, each with its own sensory atmosphere. In most
cases I am able to choose from a finite set of routes to my destination. I
leave my house to buy groceries. There is a busy street with cars, buses,
and pedestrians that leads to the market; there is a quieter residential street
that also leads to the market. I must take some street, but the specific one
I choose is up to me. Or at least it seems that way. Perhaps I am lured
in a particular direction by the promise of a singular set of sensations,
so I choose it because of what it promises me? This is the hypothetical
dimension. Now, once I am committed to a single route (is it one of my
habitual circuits?) I find myself inserted in a sensory milieu that makes
unique claims on my body's sensory apparatus. My body is commanded
categorically by the sensations comprising the milieu because it cannot but
receive and respond to these sensations, which are, in Lingis's words, "not
reactions to physical causality nor adjustments to physical pressures, nor free
and spontaneous impositions of order on amorphous data, but responses to
directives."472 Our carnal sensibility obeys environmental commands as they
are given, but not necessarily as a form of subjection. Sensibility, because it
is of the same environment to which it responds, is precisely what enables
the body to get along in that environment. Sensibility is the body's freedom,
but a freedom bestowed upon it from without.473 The sensory imperative is a
heteronomous imperative.
Elaborating on the imperative, Lingis takes up Merleau - Ponty's notion of
the levels of perception. Lingis writes of
the level of light which our gaze adjusts to and sees with as it
looks at the illuminated contours that surface and intensify,
the level of the sonority our hearing attunes to as it harkens to
sounds and noises that rise out of it, the level of the tangible
our posture finds as our limbs move across the contours and
textures of tangible substances....474
What makes the levels different from the objects of perception is that the
former are decidedly ungraspable. Their adumbrations cannot be explored
or enumerated, for they have no profiles. Our bodies cannot pursue a better
hold on them, cannot enter into a dialectical relation which slowly converges
on their essence. To engage a level, the body "adjusts to it, is sustained by
it, moves with it and according to it."475 In a word, the body is animated
by the aesthetic of the levels. A place, or the world taken as the totality
of places, is composed of a nexus of levels. Its style is determined by this
nexus which cannot be "survey[ed] from above." The style of a place is
something our bodies "catch on to by moving with it." It is not given to us
in perception, but engaged as an imperative whose force comes from the
"sensorial patterns" which order intentionality.476 If perception wants to
perceive things, it must adjust itself to the levels in which things are situated.
To pursue the profiles of objects, the body must subject itself to the shifting
qualitative dimension of the levels. The levels are elemental and, therefore, a
kind of depth in which the world is immersed. It is because we are immersed
in this depth, not set over against it, that it cannot be grasped by perception,
only yielded to or traversed.
From an aesthetic perspective we can conceive the identity of a place as
composed of an indeterminate series of sensations, the nexus of levels that
gives this series its specific dimensions, and the circuits of behavior they
engender. The body's identity is susceptible to the imperative force of each
of these environmental aspects. And insofar as these aspects are perpetually
shifting and prone to a range of sensory variations, we could say that a
place's sensory identity is never fixed in its form, but maintains the integrity
of a haecceity - a metastable and coherent, yet precarious, aggregate of
sensory qualities. Of course we can say that this aggregate points us toward a
unified object, but does that not unnecessarily reduce the complexity of the
sensory content to a simple substance or telos? Or rather, can we not think
of the object as radiating its complex of qualities outward, and therefore as a
multiplicity exploding its apparent unity? To imagine this would be to think
from the perspective of the object, or to take an object - oriented approach to
embodiment.
Given that the bodies that populate a place are partly responsible for
that place's sensory content, whose directives command bodies to respond
in particular ways, the identity of the bodies situated within a place will also
have the character of a haecceity. The integrity and intensity of the place gets
reflected in the body. Consequently, the range of sensations and affects the
body is capable of gets determined by the range of sensations and affects it
receives from its environment. At any given time the singular constitution or
dispositionality of a body is made possible by its plasticity.
Metabolism
The critical takeaway here can be illustrated with an appeal to the biological
concept of metabolism. In our consideration of the aesthetics of place, the
identity of bodies, and the alimentary aspect of sensation, we have worked
toward a philosophical encounter with metabolism. Biologically speaking,
metabolism is a fact. Ontologically, it describes the genesis of form and
exemplifies the plastic nature of bodies, both organic and inorganic. Organic
bodies are aggregates of matter and void, "void mostly, crisscrossed by
the geometry of force," as Jonas puts it.477 Through the metabolic process
the organic body trades its matter with the matter of its surroundings.
This exchange gives rise to a "living form" whose matter is never the
same from one moment to the next. No identical core persists through
the metabolic process, which means that an organism is not the same as a
machine understood in the usual sense. As Jonas says, "Metabolism thus
is the constant becoming of the machine itself - and this becoming itself
is a performance of the machine: but for such performance there is no
analogue in the world of machines."478 Writing of the body - world interface,
Andrieu strikes a similar note about the non - mechanical individuation of the
metabolic process:
As an interface, the body doesn't remain passive: it doesn't
obey the orders of the nervous system in a servile manner,
neither is it an objective reflection of the world. Failing to
be this recording chamber, according to the mechanical
metaphor, the human body is the way in and out, through
which the inside communicates with the outside (and vice - 
versa). This crossing is subjectifying in the sense that the
matter of the body is the result of this building up interaction.
By "subjectifying" I mean the movement which singularizes
each human body by successive incorporations. Subjectivity
is a result, in continuous movement, of adaptation and
regulation.479
From the perspective of biological metabolism the organism is a material
event, a function of metabolism, not the converse.480 From the ontological
perspective metabolism offers us a conception of identity as active self - 
integration and renewal, as the integration of a fluctuating multiplicity.
On the one hand, the material exchange that bodies conduct with the
world replenishes their form. On the other hand, our perceptual dialogue
enables us to maintain our balance in the phenomenal world; it helps
keep the world intact, manageable. The individual on this materialist
view - which Andrieu describes as "dynamic" and Bennett calls "vital" - 
develops a certain degree of freedom in its form, but it remains bound to
the environment by and for its matter. In Jonas's words, the individual is
"needfully free."481 Our freedom is our ability to negotiate the determinate
indeterminacy offered by the world.
The biological concept of metabolism applies only to organic, living
beings. It need not be so limited in application, however. The concept can
be profitably co - opted by the carnal ontology under development here, and
extended so as to describe inorganic relations. As Bennett writes,
The activity of metabolization, whereby the outside and inside
mingle and recombine, renders more plausible the idea of
a vital materiality. It reveals the swarm of activity subsisting
below and within formed bodies and recalcitrant things, a
vitality obscured by our conceptual habit of dividing the world
into inorganic and organic life.482
To illustrate the aberrant materialism exemplified by this metabolic process,
we turn to Yukio Mishima's autobiographical meditation on identity, Sun
and Steel, a text which allegorizes the plasticity of the body. Sun and Steel
recounts Mishima's turn away from words and toward the body, namely, his
initiation into the world of bodybuilding.
Mishima recognizes the human tendency toward automatism of mind
and body. But he also sees that habits are not destinies: they can be molded
and redirected, not just intentionally but also materially. We are not actually
automata. As Bergson has shown, following Félix Ravaisson, habits link us
into the mechanisms of nature and often act as efficient responses to the
directives contained therein.483 The sun provides a directive for Mishima.484
Its rays are absorbed into his body and incorporated into the surface of his
skin. In a similar fashion the steel of the weights he lifts gets incorporated
into his musculature. These are not metaphors. Mishima writes: "Little by
little ... the properties of my muscles came increasingly to resemble those
of the steel. This slow development, I found, was remarkably similar to the
process of education, which remodels the brain intellectually by feeding it
with progressively more difficult matter."485 Mishima does not literally ingest
steel, although his body certainly does take in the vitamins provided by the
sunlight. Nevertheless, Mishima's body lives from, metabolizes the steel
no less than the sun. His body engages organic and inorganic matter and,
enacting an unnatural participation, converts both into muscle. According to
Lingis's description,
In the coupling of organism with steel, the vital substance
with the extreme condensation of night and death, there was
not competent intentional force shaping inert substance into
implements, but transference of properties. The properties that
came to compose the excess musculature came from the steel
and were its own properties. In the contact with the substance
of steel, Mishima found a body become ferric substance.486
This muscle not only gives him strength, it provides his form as well. The
form emerges from the circuitous relation which obtains between body and
milieu, both of which must be regarded as organic/inorganic composites.487
The idea that Mishima metabolizes sun and steel is more than metaphor.
His body is sculpted and polished by repetitive exposure to metal and
solar energy. Sun and steel territorialize his body and augment his vitality.
He exchanges for this his sweat, vitamins, calories, pallor. In his words, he
transforms "the silence of death into the eloquence of life."488 His writer's
body, with its distinctive habits and traits, is molded into the body of a
weightlifter and begins to signify differently, in the code of the bodybuilder.
This signification is transmitted through a new set of sensations. The
bodybuilder's circuit of training lends Mishima's body its stability, its
integrity - its power. The circuit enables him to cut into certain material
flows and generate a new form. Mishima is a machine, but not in the
mechanical sense. The organic/inorganic metabolism of Mishima's body
demonstrates the machinic process, described by Deleuze and Guattari, and
allows us to see that insofar as each one of us metabolizes materials from the
natural and social environment - including affects and sensations, signs and
gestures, rituals and mannerisms - our corporeal identity is literally formed
by what we inhabit. Metabolism exemplifies plasticity just as well as any
other process.489
Bodies/Buildings
Some architectural theorists think about body/building relations in a similar
way. They consider the sensory design of a building as fundamental to the
experience of place precisely because the body's sensibility is susceptible to
the qualities endemic to a particular building. There is both an aesthetics
and an ethics of design at work in sentiments of this kind. In Atmospheres the
architect Peter Zumthor writes about how the "atmosphere" of a building
is its rhythm, which we pick up "through our emotional sensibility."490 He
elaborates a series of points about how to generate atmosphere, which
include sensory and material considerations:
It's like our own bodies with their anatomy and things we can't
see and skin covering us - that's what architecture means to
me and that's how I try to think about it. As a bodily mass, a
membrane, a fabric, a kind of covering, cloth, velvet, silk, all
around me. The body! Not the idea of the body - the body
itself! A body that can touch me.491
In his meditation on atmosphere, he exhibits a distinct sense
of how the body is immediately affected by the building it
inhabits, and how the body demands certain architectural
qualities for its well - being. He considers temperature: "It is
well - known that materials more or less extract the warmth
from our bodies."492 Atmosphere, I would argue, is just
another name for the singular sensory structure of a space.
Juhani Pallasmaa writes in "An Architecture of the Seven Senses" about
how our bodies adopt the structure of buildings in their skeletal structure
and bodily sensations.493 He argues that "Every touching experience of
architecture is multi - sensory; qualities of matter, space, and scale are
measured equally by the eye, ear, nose, skin, tongue, skeleton and muscle.
Architecture involves seven realms of sensory experience which interact
and infuse each other."494 The identity of a space is distinct and can be
apprehended by the senses. Hollow spaces resonate with emptiness, whereas
furnished spaces will have an aural identity specific to the arrangement,
quantity, and quality of the furnishings.495 He summarizes how the identity
of architect and building merge in the design process, and how this identity
is passed on to the building's patrons:
an architect internalizes a building in his body; movement,
balance, distance and scale are felt unconsciously through the
body as tension in the muscular system and in the positions
of the skeleton and inner organs. As the work interacts
with the body of the observer the experience mirrors these
bodily sensations of the maker. Consequently, architecture is
communication from the body of the architect directly to the
body of the inhabitant.496
Pallasmaa's phenomenological convictions win the day, however, and he
concludes that while sensations engage the physical body, "the generative
force lies in the intentions."497 I would contend that while intentions do
indeed propel our engagement with places, it is the directives embedded in
places - built and natural - that initially strike the body. It is strange that
Pallasmaa does not concede this point, for his analysis emphasizes the role
of the skin in the experience of architecture. The skin, it seems to me, only
takes on an intentional aspect when it directly contacts some object, not
when it senses an atmosphere. And even then it is questionable whether
or not it is intentional in the sense that vision or imagination is. I would
claim, following Levinas, that the skin is precisely that sense organ which
testifies to the primacy of sensation over perception because it is constantly
processing environmental information that never rises to the level of
conscious representation.
Our bodies are of the environment, but not identical to it. Merleau - 
Ponty says the same thing about the flesh, but his exposition leaves us
wanting a fuller account of how bodies are individuated from and eventually
annihilated by the flesh's general element. The concepts of metabolism
and growth offer us a picture of the individual as at once attached to and
independent of its environment. This is not a relation of reversibility, but
one of volatile transaction. The transaction can go off well or it can go
badly. The individual is not fully determined by its situation, although it is
fundamentally enabled by it. Who is this individual? It is the body which
refers to itself as "I" and understands itself as a singular locus of sensations,
passions, and actions, and which feels itself limited by and attached to a
particular set of material, cultural, and linguistic circumstances.
Following up this view of individuation, we can conceive the body as
a singular locus of sensations (haecceities), or as a specific conspiracy of
environmental impressions which define an exact position, a longitude and a
latitude.498 A body can be anything, but it will always be defined or mapped
according to the ratio governing it as a composite of simple bodies and the
affective, anonymous forces traversing the composite at a given moment.499
On this reading sensations are neither mere epiphenomena produced in
the mind nor content merely inferred from perception. They are productive
of clearly demarcated bodily responses, what we might call, with Dewey,
experiences: "An experience has a unity that gives it its name, that meal, that
storm, that rupture of friendship. The existence of this unity is constituted
by a single quality that pervades the entire experience in spite of variation
of its constituent parts."500 This quality need not be simple. Indeed, most
experiences are differentiated by a multiplicity of qualities that we identify
as a singularity. That bodies undergo or suffer experiences implies that
experiences are objectively given and generate their own form. That we
metabolize the qualities which pervade experiences - that experiences
shape who we are and what we can do - means that we become who we
are along with our experiences. Subjectivity is produced as this qualitative
becoming.501
Qualities are neither atomistic nor indeterminate. They do not derive
their form from a thing or lose their autonomy just because they are
"attached" to a thing, but rather they give rise to the form and qualitative
identity of the thing as an assemblage of potential sensations. This idea
is found in Mach as well as James: "Thing, body, matter, are nothing
apart from the combinations of elements - the colors, sounds, and so
forth - nothing apart from their so - called attributes."502 The same can
be said of space, as well as the bodies that populate that space. As James
writes, "Space means but the aggregate of all our possible sensations."503
Consequently, the body becomes the site of these sensations, each and
every one of which leaves a trace that makes it impossible for the body to
undergo the same impression twice.504 Its disposition is constantly changing
with its environment. In this way bodies are at every moment individual
aesthetic events whose power to produce sensible effects is constituted by
the aesthetic experiences they suffer. Power, then, is a plastic disposition - 
autonomous in effect but relational in constitution. Death, on this view,
is simply the exhaustion of the individual's power, or the transgression of
the threshold that defines the individual's power at a particular moment.
When your body ceases to produce the sensations that define you, you have
become something else. You begin to produce new sensations, engender
a new power, however enfeebled or strengthened. Your matter continues,
reincarnated, in an infinite succession of new metabolic events. This is your
immortality.
The Principle of Aesthetic Individuation
There is no reductionism involved here. What I have attempted is to
render life and individuality in aesthetic terms, and to do so according
to a corporeal ontology that avoids, if I have succeeded at all, both
transcendent principles and anthropocentrism. This is not in the interest of
homogenizing the diversity of life, but in affirming the singular complexity
of each individual and flattening the field of being.