



JO IS NOT A POLITICAL PARTY IN FACT JO IS NON EXISTENT. JO COMPRISES SOME OF THE OPPORTUNISTS AS MR STOOGES


It is all good Mr. Dilan.  You are not telling what you personally are going to do beneficial for the citizens of this country.




How many times has this man run behind UNP!!!?


Mr write off get lost.


the only reason you are out of jail is because UNP spearheaded the struggle to get you released


My dear you are a person whom the voters rejected.Just don't jump the line be quiet, atleast try to contest and win your seat at the next general elections.MS grave mistake was electing the lost candidates on the National List.


 IF HE HAS ANY GAIN HE WILL EVEN JOIN TO EROS,EPDP OR AIADMK IN INDIA.


What a SHAMELESS politician ! .




UNP, SLFP and now SLPP. Experienced politician!!!


This man is now out, no more batting, Ranil is batting now, go home.


He is also another typical politician in Sri Lanka.


Dayasiri, Have you heard what happens to bird that jumps from one tree to another when raining? Your political carrier is following a similar path.


Tried best to hanging on to the ministerial position but failed. Dayasiri, you are  a political refugee now. team up with Susil ,john and others to start washing dirty linen of mahinda  now. you surely can have a place at the back yard of SLPP


First try to get hold of your self.


Its not MR or RW or MS we shoule fear but politicians like this guy who are able like trains able to run on any gauge. What is your policy in politics? Is it liberal, conservative, socilaist, right, left or blah blah? U got nothing just like the most politicians in our parliament. Only policy you have is “fill my pocket” at the expense of all the poor n middle class people. SL politics is at a digusting level n u r one of them who made people feel like that.


Who cares? We are fed-up of all these nuisance. Enough is enough. Dont waste our money. Dont tax us for these jokes and jokers


Now to get control of SLFP?  What a drama? Curse the voters who voted you guys into parliament.With one leg in the SLFP to gain a ministerial post in a collision government for the sake of Money and Luxury Cars and the other leg in SLPP if the balance of power tilts that way to jump on to that side.




Turn Bell the other way.......Guess what?





Good bye to education Sri Lanka if this guy becomes President. All people will be illiterate.




You have robbed the Central Bank and want to set fiscal policies. There are two more bond scam investigations are pending. A big humbug


Robbing the CB has been going on since MARAs time, difference is 


You are trying to to close the stable door after the horse has bolted.




We’re like the emperor without clothes, blind to our nudity’ - Prof.Hoole

Mr. Hoole, the above is about you, you are talking about yourself.


I saw this article by chance, then looked for it on Colombo Telegraph where Prof. Hoole's articles usually appear.  I think that he usually publishes in other fora as well.
That this did not appear in Colombo Telegraph is disturbing to me.


Australia should seriously consider opening its doors to the minorities in SL.


Are the Minorities of Sri Lanka willing to be second Class Citizens in Australia?


Sort your problems rather than exporting them onto others.


Will the opposition stop their internal bickering and read the last Question and the Answer in this page? It throws a lot of light.


Prof Hoole, There is no doubt that you are one of the greatest academic Sri Lanka ever had, But it is sad that you are self-centric and do all the wrong things to benefit your family, and your community.


This whole article shows he's partial and saying I saw it but couldn't correct it because ..... How lame is that. The three people in the EC couldn't work together what more can we expect from them then.


It appears that Mako turned actor posted a phoney   image to the public and took control of running his own agenda. Shame on him. Why did he not pursue the citizenship issue of one candidate.




Get ready to pack up


20 means 4/5 independent states!




reward for murder, well done. keep it up and you can be the next president.


Sir, Well done. As soon as you came, you killed normal civilliance. Is it our population too much ???


Congratulations Sir......




India is also preaching about Human rights violations, one needs to look closely at the following questions,


David Cameron is in Sri Lanka, giving lectures on human rights and asking for an independent inquiry in to alleged war crimes during last few days of the war, that ended in May 2009.




I wish SLFP all the Best.. Now the party has got the chance to


Well said Chimpa!




Long life by paa tha loca magic always carried by the hand


Best of luck and long life Prez. We are Sri lankan


Happy Birthday Mr. President!


we wish your excellency a very happy birthday.. proud to have a president like you...


WE hope ur luck will continue as long as u carry that gold-plated gedjut n ur hand





Happy birth day..


In buddhism, one gains blessings on through ones rigteousness. No amount of  can clean a criminal's hands bcos according to the sins he has committed he will face justice in the end.


Many happy returns of the day Sir


From 67 to 68...getting rid of the ever bad numerology number totaling the figure 13. Wish you all the best!


For all the atrocities, thievery and the murders you do, god will have a special place for you.......SOON.


 look at his size he is so unhealthy don't think he's had a bit of excercise all his life, he wont live that long.


Good, you also got a nice gift from Cameron!


Wish your excellency a very happy birthday...may the triple gem bless you !!


HAPPY BIERTH DAY YOUR EXCELLANCY Y SIR


long life our brave President.




Dear India, we knew you will loose, the way you all act when achieve something good, looks very horrible to others. You have to be more humble men !




Is the Deficit becoming an 'acceptable item' in the Budget? What are we (as a country) doing to reduce this?


The phony budget for "nuts"?


What the usage of budget ??? all the consumer prices are increasing every day.. no valvue for budget speech


Great graphic, concise and to the point.




Due to some unsavory characters in the bunch - this news item does not deserve a comment.




It seems that the present Government obviusly do not want any opposition andthey call this a Democracy.


Oh poor SF. Now he is acting like such an innocent helpless sole.




WHO CARES....... WE KNOW THE EXACT RESULTS.




I think this road will be more useful than the E 01


Congradgulations Sri Lanka.


Great Achievement Your excellency


Great. This really improves the image of the country.


Silly comment.It was opened only last evening and here we have people commenting about vehicle movements the next morning...


it doesn't take 1.30hrs on the normal road.


Check the South Expressway. Now they are allowing DIMO  on the highway, when they initially allowed only above 1000cc vehicles. why? cos less people are using it.


Jealousy for what? maybe we will have to pay the loans to build the highway, which will only benefit very few people. Imagine paying Rs. 300 every day if you regular traveler on the Negambo road. jealousy...


LOL. Are u trying beat Russel Peters?


LOL. Are u trying beat Russel Peters?


Will we get money which will cover at least the maintenance costs


YOU stupid. not the high way.


Good work done by the government. I would prefer if the light vehicle charges (CARS) reduce. Then more vehicle might use the road.


"I saw a newborn baby with wild wolves all around it


Stupid!


Great achievement.But the cost is high for daily travelers. It should be halved to encourage more vehicles on the E3


It is nice and good but day by day citizen of Srilankans are becoming poor. they are unable to have one proper meal and life security , what is the big happines if you are not in mind of peace


We haven't seen much vehiles today morning. Will it be a highway with out vehicle like the Airport and Harbour?






BETTER YOU OPEN A BOAT SERVICE IN THE SEA FOR CIVILIANS WHILE YOU ARE PUSHING THE BOAT OUT FOR CHOOGUM.




You are a legend..... the world truly misses your voice.


A tragedy. Nothing is permanent




very intelligent - to win (3) pushed to ....? what else...Black is Black


The peaple's Chief minister is Haren Fenando..........!




Great Animation - Well done Daily Mirror


Can't you do the same thing with Malaka's story?


Very well done DM


WOW, WONDERFUL JOB. KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK Mr. PRADEEP JAYAKODY.




Rightfully all the ministers should have been from the SLFP,the majority party in parliament after the Presidential election.This was not a parliamentary election to have made such changes and appoint a prime minister from theminority party in the house.


Those who say it is a miniority government must remember, that the presidential election was fought on the platform that Maithree for President and Ranil for PM.....this was promoted by all the parties even other than UNP. Specially Champika Ranawake was a champion of this cause......please go back to vedios, so the manadate of the people is supreme, and it is legitimately given...




New man haters


wHY NOT ALLOW THE WO,EM POLICE TO DEAL WITH SUCH WOMENS UNRESTS




I am a Sri Lankan worked in the UN based in Netherlands for two years. The people in Netherlands are very simple and do not feel great about their history. They don’t even know that there are few people living in Sri Lanka calling themselves as Dutch Burghers. So it is funny reading of the nationalistic tone of the Burghers in Sri Lanka.




This month is Tamil month in Canada. A lady of Tamil descent is very closely associated with the new US Vice President. Lord Ahmed of UK has made critical comments on Sri Lanka. Many Sri Lankan’s have been banned from entering the US. Universally in civilised Christian countries the momentum against Sri Lanka and its genocide committing peoples is increasing. What the Tamils couldn’t achieve by armed conflict may come about when an financially emasculated despised Sri Lanka will be required to concede.




Crime does not seem 
 be commited.
Or any illegal activity.social cultural activity must be entertained encouraged.
Research funding must go to those who actively  do it


Denial of  basic human rights cannot be condoned by decent citizens. Prof.Sarath Chandrajeeva is an outstanding academic who  has been building bridges of understanding among  different communities in our country. Please reinstate him without delay . Rev.Fr.N.M.Saveri




Very well written article-covers all the facts.




How about manufacturing it locally like growing tumaric in Sri lanka.


To make the matter easier, use the piece of cloth as pad and then throw after use, closer to the Parliament.




This is further evidence of the primitive satanic nature of the peoples of Sri Lanka. In Christian civilised Australia, New Zealand and countries like the United States the rights of the indigenous peoples are recognised. Hopefully this beggar country will descend further into poverty and failure and  to be rescued be absorbed into an territorially expanded China as an area producing maids and labourers for the Han Chinese


the majority of Bandas are full idiots.


Rights and customs traditions of all native indigenious people must be respected by all government provided no harm done to resources




What a lovely refreshing article! Concentrating on the environment and helpless animals instead of uneducated politicians and their damaging drama. Great work daily mirror!




After all, cost of one Bullet Proof car costs only Rs. 180,000,000/=. So, Whats the big deal??


The EFFECT of rioting is a dispicable and unnecessary act.


Not condoning the riots, but damaged goods can be replaced and re-built.
The cost of lost lives is priceless!




