



It is a matter of great sorrow that, mainly through mistaken notions of zeal, the Muslims have during the period of decline earned for themselves an unenviable reputation for intolerance. But that is not the fault of Islam. Islam has from the beginning proclaimed and inculcated the widest tolerance. For instance, so far as freedom of conscience is concerned the Quran says


Jinnah himself called Zafrullah the most able Muslim in India. End of story.


Umer


The oddest part is that liberals who
would not be caught dead praising
Madoodi or Usmani, don’t bat an eyelid
singing paeans to Zaffarullah who was
no less a fundamentalist. Do we still
hold to the myth that successful
lawyers cannot be religious
fundamentalists and bigoted?


"Liaqat Ali khan, Shabir Ahmad Usmani,  Madoodi , Zafrullah khan were on same pitch"


@axxxr riaz


@kxxxxxxxxx:


thanks Ajmal Kamal, as you use my comments yet you as usual tries to emphasis on wrong facts.
you wrote in your previous column"For example, our youngsters have been made oblivious of the existence of Sir Zafarullah Khan, a prominent lawyer from Punjab and a close confidant of Mohammad Ali Jinnah, who made him the first foreign minister of the country he created as a result of negotiations with the British government. Why?


I don't recall writing these comments but I am amazed at your obsession, even petrified.


Ajmal


The Arabic imperative "Iqra!", BTW, is wrongly translated into English as "Read!". In fact it means "Recite!" or orally repeat what is orally communicated to you. And the context testifies to it, as an oral message was required to be repeated verbatim; no written text was involved which could be "read".


Umer


This "kaalchakra" is a special case, his comments have no factual backing but rather the views of a biased and bitter man.


@kxxxxxxxxx, the treatment of  and other anti-minority laws like minorities cannot occupy highest posts like president or prime-minister , reflect the nature and character of the state more than a million page defence of those indefensible atrocities.


@kxxxxxxxxx: even when you get your facts right your inference remains distorted.
Sir Zafarullah was respected in 10 downing street;to you it signifies a deep underlying conspiracy;to someone else it is a proof of his stature as a statesman.


Excellent article. "we are in majority therefore you are non Muslims".very ably highlighted.


Babloo


Mr Kamal Pasha


Pakistan states treatment of  is diabolic. Any defence of such inhuman treatment should be condemned in the toughest possible words.


it is a fact of history that he spoke
in favour of the Objectives Resolution
in the constituent assembly




Forgive me if I sound foolish, but I did not get what this article said. what is the misdiagnosis and how is it being portrayed as cure,and what is the solution?, again.


Babloo


MarkH


If the role of army/ISI is limited to only security from external forces, then Pakistan can become like India. Now that may not be good enough and far from perfect but it would be a big improvement over the state you have now.
However, that's easy said than done as the army/ISI is the richest organization in Pakistan and carries the gun.


@axxxxxxx- Very well said about Pak economic mindset in the first para "national economy reads like calamity".The sad aspect of the whole situation is that we have "UPS' for cricket and "IPS" for industry.Whither Pak economy,the bread earner for 180 million? BTW.UPS is (uninterrupted POWER supply) and IPS is (intermittent POWER supply) with prolonged and abrupt shut-downs,


When the diet of hate starts very early in life the health of a nation and its people will definitely suffer. Sadly Pakistan does not have a Gandhi or Khan Abdul Gaffar Khan to extricate it from the Political and Religious quicksand it is stuck in. Citizens have been lied to so brazenly - by their family, by their Government, by the 's and by their Military that TRUTH looks like fiction and FICTION is mistaken for Truth.
I was surprised by the poll conducted of educated readers by ET on the missing persons case - that over 66% believe that RAW/Mossad have made citizens disappear. When the mind is made incapable of thinking, reasoning or Logic we need not wonder as to what lies ahead for the people and country. Emotions are dead and people can do nothing but feel sad.




What cannot be denied this government is its better record on empowering women, reforms in the tribal areas, surrender of objectionable presidential powers inherited from past dictatorial and autocratic dispensations to parliament through the 18th Amendment, and setting a good precedent of appointing the Leader of the Opposition in the National Assembly as head of the Public Accounts Committee. It is another matter that that worthy has resigned from that post and is engaged, along with his PML-N colleagues, in frothing at the mouth at the president and government without being able to produce any cogent arguments that may have appeal to the electorate. The opposition’s behaviour in parliament during the presidential address was deplorable, violative of parliamentary norms, which include respect from parliament to the office of the president, and disrespecting the dignity of the house. Hopefully these are the rough edges of our young democracy that will be smoothed out with time and maturity.


The problems of energy shortages, corruption and poor performance of state run utilities were there even before Zardari took the reins of power. The previous governments failed to set up plants to produce electricity and gas. At least the present government is taking steps to overcome energy shortages and in this respect efforts are being made to exploit the Thar -coal reserves to produce electricity and the talks with Iran on laying the Iran Pakistan Gas pipeline is also in an advance stage. Seeing the gravity of the problems the performance of the Zardari government is not that bad after all.






The chief architect of this is Zbigniew Brzezinski. He is still alive and want to use Iran against Russia and Real Taliban against Pakistan. That is why you see US intelligence apparatus defending Iran and there is peace with Taliban.


@Axi Wazir:
Khomeini destroyed Iran.


@A Suhail
Hitler did not do any thing to us then why he bad for oh i got it may be destroy it you peoples
beloved Raj. ha-ha-ha-ha


@A suhail
1857 to 1867 war of freedom in India against B, Raj caused hundred of thousand dead Muslims Hindus what you gonna name it.


@A, Suhai,
If yiu wanna say Hitler was not so great then that list include u too means Mughals and British
and French and so called Alexander the Greek and so on........ by the way all occupation ends
directly in the name of colony. read the Indian history from last Mughals ...


Mosadegh and Shariati, Khomeini all three of them Teachers by profession and Great Iranians, No Doubt....They are a guiding light for us Pakistanis if we ever decide to overcome our 60 year of Gharabzadegi..


@Axxxn


@A Suhail:


@Axi Tanoli:
Hitler the great??? A diabolical, egomaniac who caused untold suffering to the world and solely responsible for the death of millions of human beings is 'great' in your books? Speechless


lots of similarities between the installed "democratic" puppet of Pakistan with their English speaking "liberal" propagandists and the shah and his minions. completely out of touch with reality and the rest of "their" nation. maybe they'll meet the same fate; permanent exile.


Queen did not learned from Hitler the great.


Mossadegh was a true nationalist leader of Iran. His single biggest achievement was the nationalisation of Iranian oil. Savak had very close links with CIA and the two agencies were looking after and safeguarding the pro-west monarchism interests. After Mossadegh came into power, the shah of Iran fled to Iraq. General Fazlullah Zahedi with the help of CIA staged a counter-coup, arrested Mossadegh and brought back shah from exile in Iraq. General Fazlullah Zahedi was handsomely rewarded by  who gave his daughter in marriage to general Fazlullah Zahedi's son, Ardsher Zahedi who once became Iran's foreign minister. (if my memory doesn't betray me, Ardsher Zahedi also served as his country's ambassador to Pakistan in late fifties or early sixties).


why we still playing in the hand of those????


Nice. You've squeezed a lot of history into a very small space. Mossadegh deserves much more recognition that what he presently has.


Another relevant book on this topic is 'All the Shah's men ' by Stephen Kinzer. Mossadegh was neither exiled nor shot dead by a firing squad but he spent the rest of his life under house arrest.


"Finally Mossadegh took over, nationalised Persian oil, was removed from power in a CIA plot, incarcerated and exiled." That's news to me. I always heard that he was executed by firing squad.




according to the constitution of Pakistan, whenever an occasion arises where two or more articles or the constitution appears to be conflicting, the Supreme Court of Pakistan is the sole authority to interpret and determine which article should be preferred... in this case article 248 is used to provide cover for the black money but in our constitution there are a few other articles (article 8, 25, 227) which says equal rights for every citizen, no law can be made against Islamic laws and everybody is accountable...so in this scenario the  may prefer the immunity as this suit them but the SC will decide whether there can be immunity or not...


First they should start trial in the country
then say us,
he has immunity why can we start trial in
Switzerland.
Swiss authority has the stance as above mentioned.


She is a senior lawyer,
and has been president of the Supreme Court Bar Association,
when asked her,to write or not write,she says,
''should not write''


Write or not write,
not write,be convicted and sentenced.
They want a new crisis,they become hero or martyr,
Save passage would have to adopted,which leads to
the parliament only.
Put the matter before the elected institution,that is better
according to my personal opinion.


The central question is of immunity of the head of State in an Islamic Republic as spelt out in the Constitution. The Constitution gives him immunity whereas under Islamic code of justice the head to State is to be treated as a normal person if charged with a crime. So now we have an issue of interpretation of the Constitution and the Supreme Court should be the body to do this and recommend change if needed.
The PM being a loud advocate of late Benazir Bhutto could take a guide from her book 'Reconciliation' page 72 on this very subject, where she clearly states her views.


Judiciary is a balance wheel of whole system,
but now the time has come,every citizen is compelled
to think about future of the state,which secured after
long standing tireless struggles.


I saw his writing when he wrote in the court . He was so bad in writing he must not write himself, hire a person with a big numeration :PP


Judiciary needs to stick to laws and conventions and never pursue what seems an agenda of the establishment. The establishment is always fickle and it will be shame if these cases, unresolved make the courts look foolish and inconsequential. To the CJ ----Keep up your good work but be wary of snakes.


By the same token Mr Zardari could put the money in a 'Trust Account' and contest the ownership of the money whence he is no longer the president.


The PCO SC judges are playing good cop and bad cop. They are not doing anything unconstitutional (like trying the president themselves) at the same time they want the coalition Govt. to try him in a foreign court. This way they achieve their goal without trying him in a court. Otherwise it is simple. The SC can determine (which they have without a trial) Zardari has committed crime and ask the Swiss to cooperate. Not start a tradition of any lower court to try a sitting head of Pakistan. If this happens then India, US, B.Desh and all other countries can easily try any Pakistani official at will. According to SC of Pakistan if a lower Swiss court should try President then all officers and protectors of OBL would be a fair game for foreign courts.




