wonderful.
I'll let you plug your thing back I need to reply now I've read the message.
uhu.
what do I say?
oh sorry I've just got home erm how has your day been? sorry that I've been unable to reply.
kind of want a drink.
I do.
what do you fancy? Pepsi Max it's a big warm orange juice coke that's in a can.
go on a can of Coke I don't usually drink cos it's full fat but it's probably better for me than all the other chemicals.
I'll go and grab it.
and I'll drink it through a straw as well. the straws are just there.
uhu can I try one of these bubble gum things? whatever they are.
yeah it's not bubble gum but yeah.
what is it?

no these.
oh yeah god those ones yeah.
what are they?
nasty what they are probably wanna find something to spit it out there you go spit it out into my erm wrapper.
is it bubble gum?
yeah.
shit I swallowed half of it it's too crumbly to be bubble gum.
yeah you keep chewing it.
not but but too small to be bubble gum you have to be like ten.
see it's how instant the reply is as well er just the like a quick chats plus I'll open up every time I can see what Jill is talking about er put your phone in and then I I can have my can of Coke.
shall we put the TV on?
yeah oh excuse me these Hi-Chews are really nice I dunno if they have the new flavour or something.
what flavour is it?
it says new strawberry but they've got a white bit in the middle.
oh can I try one?
yeah they're really good.
how much were they? you don't remember do you?
I've probably got a card receipt somewhere I think I spent four pound in the shop but I got two cans a bottle and these.
oh wow.
they had loads of other flavours as well.
and there's mango or anything cool?
I didn't think to look I can't quite remember off the top of my head but I was just like oh my god strawberry and it looks like Hi-Chew I'm gonna get it in case it is Hi-Chew and if not oh well I've got some chewing gum see what I mean? it's not like.
what are they saying now? Jack do you wanna put my phone over there and yours here?
okay there's not really much I can revise that any more.
what's it say?
er they're gonna start scheduling these market craft markets out of one every month at IVYBRIDGE and have it as a regular thing not just a but we're having a market next week.
no but erm you should probably reply just for a few to show that.
yeah.
so reply to that one go oh that that would be erm with them bringing in more business regular customers all that.
this TV's so useless let's turn on cos there's that stupid bit of.
what?
merry Christmas thing in the way so you gotta try and angle it round it okay then what are we going on? Netflix or.
who was watching that?
Jill you quite liked that film didn't you?
what?
you quite like the Pineapple Express don't you?
I love it yeah.
have you seen erm?
shit sorry. oh god sorry sitting it's taking so long to get into these.
I know it's a really tough packet.
oh they smell good. some of them are like some of my favourites from.
yeah.
there's the mm do you ever watch Luther?
yeah I did with my parents.
oh god it was so good.
mm.
Home Alone no? haven't seen Air Command Two is it any good?
yeah it's alright.
mm.
can't really remember it.
it only got two star what else is there? apparently that's just a really brutal arse film like incredibly violent.
mm.
Ratatouille?
what was that film with that actress that everyone things is really hot? Megan Fox there was a film and it was like a was it Megan Fox?
the vampire one?
yeah.
erm there's a really cool song in that I watched it once erm I can't remember what the song is and I couldn't find it anywhere I can't remember what it was called that looks atrocious.
mm. oh you haven't seen that cos you don't like puppets.
no no.
it's so funny they make the puppets have sex in one point.
even more terrifying.
have you seen that?
yeah.
didn't we try and half watch that once?
mm the Hungover Games.
that's funny you haven't seen that have you?
yeah I think.
it's er.
we watched it once didn't we?
I know I watched I dunno if you were with me and we and the piss-take version of Narnia.
mm.
what the fudge?
what? what is it?
it's a it's a about I don't know.
what's a GBF?
gay best friend.
oh.
don't you know anything?
you spend more time looking for something to watch on Netflix don't you than actually watching it.
yeah wanna look in a different section maybe?
new releases maybe oh is there the new ?
no.
then why is it on new releases?
cos there's nothing new.
that's a lie villainy.
ah.
that was impressive Glitter Force.
that's something you'd be into girls in revealing like clothes that was not very good but can't stop watching it kind of thing until you realise that you should probably.
stop maybe.
stop watching it.
Human Centipede three?
haven't even seen the first one. erm yeah.
what?
what?
what?
I don't really know to be honest I'm really tired.
me too oh no is that no it's not is it?
it's Daniel Radcliffe.
is it really?
playing the yeah.
what is he in there?
he's got horns.
is that supposed to be a a good film?
three and a half stars I've heard people talk about it before.
mm.
they made the TV series of that it's gonna be a bit better than the shit that was maybe funny as well.
yeah.
she spent er there you go and so it's got a funny camp gay black guy in it. watch it if you want.
mm okay we will.
yeah? why was she trapped underground?
I will imagine that will be revealed in the programme. ah oh Christmassy ah oh cute. what? cult leader apprehended whilst acting weird at Omaha.
 gonna pause this because I believe a wild dickhead has appeared.
oh.
can you hear the music from here?
he will give permission for this won't he?
what?
he'll give permission for this won't he?
probably.
well if not I'll delete it.
mm what was it? we can carry on yum yum these are good yeah he woke up when we left.
mm.
which was earlyish it was about ten wasn't it? but before ten.
you say woke up he was collapsed on that chair.
but didn't go to sleep so he had five hours' sleep and then still managed to go out last night and then.
he went out last night as well?
well with me.
oh on the thought you meant out out.
well. what's this programme called again? the Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt.
oh. mole women.
