as well.
yeah cos that had something to do with it shit bastards you're comfy are you? yeah.
I'm hungry actually.
you hungry?
yeah. he looks like a right dickhead.
who does?
that guy with the glasses.
why is it so creepy? why are there so many rapists everywhere?
are you a police officer? none of them are getting locked up though.

but guilty like.
he'll go on the sex offenders' register and everything.
he'll have to go to jail for three years him. he's without charge. with an eleven-year-old disabled girl.
that was that was the worst one.
disabled girl it's fucking ridiculous. sorry.
you are so so sexy.
I know right?
which one d'you wanna watch? Jill?
yeah.
what is it?
Catfish.
what is Catfish?
same as Stinton really but not paedophiles..
just fake-o weirdos who pretend to be something else on the internet.
oh yeah I remember. ha ha she does not look like that it's really loud this programme you've not met her paedophile what?
he's a black guy all the black ones are cheaters.
yeah.
it's true we've watched five and two of them are black and two of them cheaters.
yeah that's fucked up you don't just jump out of one into another one. ah this is the one I watched the end of. how has he how has he got like three kids and known this girl three years?

yeah I know but why if they've only been together for three years and now have three kids?
they might be kids from his don't know. she ain't Jess.
she ain't Jess.
I know what happens.
his girlfriend is Jess well that would have been a cool twist.
yeah that would have been a cool twist.
you fucking cheating bastard.
unless she. called Cheaters.
Cheaters yeah unless she didn't know it was him either at which point she'd be like oh so this is awkward we've actually fallen for each other behind each other's back.
yeah.
yeah..
why are they involved if right right now they think Jess is real?
they no they get found whether Jess is real or not.
so they do it a lot and the person ends up being real?
and not real.
and not real.
cos he will end up breaking up with his girlfriend ruining his life and it be some like fat chick or something no.
fat yeah a really fat horrible chick what's he doing with his ?
what is that? I've just seen it.
I think that American crutches are fucking ridiculous they're allowed to go to your armpits.
ah yeah it's stupid.
do what into your armpits?
the crutches.
the crutches go to your armpits.
oh right yeah. if you ever talk to anyone online behind my back I will fucking throttle you.
I don't have time to talk to anyone online you got me doing all these jobs for you all the time.
like what?
running around after you press play?
what jobs ?
press play.

what the book thing?
book thing yeah that was a massive thing three hours out of my day but.
it wasn't three hours out of your day it was about ten minutes.
ten minutes yeah everything is yeah then it's no thanks to you while I'm driving home to you she's not real but I'm lost for her. chocolate and vanilla swirls..
have you ever seen it be successful?
yeah.
what on here? yeah.
that's nice.
just take that away this isn't successful because you've seen the end and it's obviously.
I literally only saw the last five seconds where they get in a car and drive away they do that in every episode anyway.
she's she is fake hi.
hey.
hey.
more paedophiles?
no.
no we've moved on.
we moved on.
are you here to stay?
no I'm doing one more thing of washing then I'm going to get some food.
are you going to stay?
when?
after that.
yeah?
oh yeah.
oh Jill I can make roast potatoes instead of chips.
are you working tonight?
er it depends how much I've gotta do tomorrow actually.
okay.
if not I'll probably do some CDs.
but thank you for thinking of it.
I can't be bothered apparently there is a little thing but then I have a look.
I've got a massive list of things to do and it's already like five o'clock four o'clock and I cannot be bothered.
it's four o'clock four.
four I think you should do it.
yeah it's not like pressing though some of it is stuff like buy a laundry bag.
I think you're a bit late for that on a Sunday at four o'clock.

no I mean online I'm not.
when everyone shuts.
I'm not yeah.
go later.
mm.
fucking Enrique Iglesias is such a pillock.
why?
cos he just is.
you know I was and I stayed in bed for the whole time.
so cheesy.

it's a great story.
his old stuff's better than his new stuff he's shit now.
he was always shit.
I've not seen this this wand thing it seems really cool.
it does don't it? that.

they had to they had to get the right matches.
have you seen the advert for it?
yeah I was telling you about the the French version they have I used to watch that at home.
I know durex so totally I have genital warts.
not again. not again. is her last name Moses?
who? Moses.
Moses is.
I don't know who it is.
it's Moses.
if somebody hadn't told me the.
he is proper black isn't he?
ink on black.
.

I'm a hundred percent.
mm.
one photo on her Facebook page.
the same photo as well.
two hundred friends all men. I love I think he's so hot so so hot except he's too skinny.
him?
yeah.
I don't think he's hot.
I think he's so hot so so hot I think you're hot too baby don't worry just in a very different way like normal average average guy. she used to be a dude what a twist that would be.
 like a million hits in fact why are we watching this? cos she's gonna tell him in a minute anyway may as well just fucking.
wait what can I just?
no that he'd do he'll repeat it all to him so he'll tell them exactly what he found.
yeah so like you watch it twice basically it's really annoying.
I just don't like everyone can't just do like fake search you grab a picture and drag it into Google.
I know.
no no it's not.
I didn't know you could do that.
you can search by image yeah.
oh he's shaved don't shave please.
is he shaved?
yeah.
ah yeah.
will you fuck off? ah.
 no fucking boiler why is it doing it again? it's so irritating he could just be lying.
mm.
I knew that is so irritating why is it making it? he won't see her.
