oh always put it on.
ha ha well I I figured it might only be another minute or so er I wouldn't bother.
well it's another five minutes.
because I Because I have gotta fill out a form and stuff which well is pointless if it's just a minute.
oh right okay.
and there is a relatively mm well you know there is a it's not an insignificant amount of admin for each recording so ah.
right.
yeah I'll um.
subject waiting in petrol station forecourt. Yeah location ah but um if I ring the council about the address today if I can if not I'll ring them on Monday should I mention should I say could you also put me through to the environment department?
yeah that would do.
I'd like to talk about some fly-tipping huh ha.
yeah that would be worth it because ultimately it's the council's responsibility to sort it out.
yeah like er er obviously it's it's er wouldn't be his responsibility to put that bollard in but.
well no you could say first thing we need would be for you to put a bollard in.
yeah.
couldn't we.
if they're dragging their feet.
look I'd ring the site office first.
right okay I could mention the. oh my it's not a boy racer it's just a shit driver.
ha ha it sounds like they are rev the engine rar.
look behind you love look behind you you're reversing. Has she gone back out again?
she's going out the no no exit jesus that's quite dangerous god huh.
surely you can get round that side surely that's the point you think?
I have no idea.
probably not where there are pumps scary.
how much would you like an open top car today?
that would be cool I should have a headscarf on though.
yes.
or I'd end up with sort of like a fright wig.
I think that's a relative term.
hmm mm ah.
oh dear yes.
it would be quite cool.
as someone with a sense of humour comedy recently it's it would just be nice if with bearing in mind the sort of like eighty percent of the price of fuel is actually tax.
mm.
oh well the special thing is you actually pay VAT on the fuel duty. oh okay right.
um.
you pay tax on the tax?
yes.
that makes sense ha in someone's world.
yeah sort of.
it must be quite disconcerting having that guy sitting on his bike watching you fill up ha I'm watching you.
oh well we'll watch him fill up.
I'm waiting.
the good news is he'll be quick.
yes he will be quick presumably the petrol tank isn't massive.
no erm unless he's gonna drink it.
he might do he looks like the kind of guy who might drink petrol.
to be fair you shouldn't.
oh hang on is he going at the same time?
no.
no okay because he er might be able to use the petrol while the other guy is using the diesel.
oh right.
or can you not do that?
no you can't do that.
oh right okay.
to be fair you shouldn't bike in jeans it's quite dangerous.
why? Cos if you come off you'll break your legs.
no um the point of leathers is if you come off and slide.
mm.
it takes leather a long time to burn through.
yeah.
see the reinforced patches on the elbows?
yeah.
that's cos it that's what hits the ground if you cos if you come off a bike at sixty miles an hour.
yeah and.
the impact won't kill you but.
the slide will take your skin off.
it will well you'll burn.
right.
A massive friction.

and yeah it will just rip through flesh.
yeah.
well the point of leathers is that leather is very tough and okay tough is the wrong word.
mm it doesn't wear we did an experiment.
it's got a.
in science in primary school we had to rub sandpaper for er two minutes on to different materials.
yeah.
and leather you can't make a scratch on you know ha.
er I'm not sure you can do that love.
presumably it just won't let her get the fuel out.
uh.
some people are just really really impatient aren't they?
yeah apparently.
ooh he's gonna be pissed off if it's double his cost cos of what she's been getting out look surely that can't work.
I don't see how that's working.
it's not she's having trouble good ha put it back.
you idiot.
worked it out yet? Come on come on love come on got it? Ooh She did look a bit there ha ha.
wow.
ah.
Jesus he just er he just went up on the pavement what the fuck?
presumably he's trying to park.
are we about to be ram raided or something?
he's making heavy weather of it isn't he?
oh.
ah right.
that was er one of the more special things I've seen yeah well what is he is truly special.
look put it back.
the problem is that it's a.
put it back put it back go on put it yes there good yes.
I think what's confusing here is there's two sets of pumps on each thing.
now now now wait wait for it to zero zero.
oh.
zero.
now if you look cos there is four options there are aren't there.
yeah.
so there's four points but they're in sets of two.
yeah.
so I think.
so she's assuming that.
I guess he looks quite nice.
doesn't he.
sort of huggable.
and that's great because he didn't need to move forwards to refuel.
exactly that was very clever.
so it's actually quicker yeah.
it saved a huge amount of time.
yeah it was good that's presumably why he pulled right up behind them so that he'd be able to do that and save time.
yeah cos as soon as the other chap paid he could er.
mm.
get on with it.
Good stuff.
erm but you.
bikers are often quite nice aren't they?
yeah tend to be unless they're like.
yeah scary bikers.
well unless they're sort of American style Hell's Angels type.
wild Hogs did you see the advert for that film?
yeah I love that.
it's a bit embarrassing.
erm er the sex wasn't it the er erm er you know in films they er they put nudity in to enhance the artistic integrity of the storyline.
yeah.
er a group of Hell's Angels at an orgy.
I don't understand.
it was just a joke about the fact that the sex is the only integral part of the story.
oh okay I don't know what this guy's doing.
I dread to think.
some kind of survey ah look at his beard he looks a bit like Jack.
yes.
oh no I can't imagine Jack riding a motorbike that really is.
oh I can see it possibly.
right.
right.
shall I get out and?
yeah sure.
