IVYBRIDGE park.
yeah there.
well maybe we should go.
that's where TK Maxx is in the and the Imax do you want to go to the cinema?
er well I'd like to be out rather than go back inside.
oh I've got to charge that.
on a day like today.

well actually five miles sounds a bit far.
I think that was five miles by car darling I was looking at.
what so it's even more by walking? or no it would be more by car then.
well a five mile walk isn't very far.
what's that?
it's probably.
is it like when we used to go along the canal in IVYBRIDGE to IVYBRIDGE.
yeah.
erm where did we go to?
erm.
we used to go to.
that market? no.
that market where was that market?
oh.
that was IVYBRIDGE.
IVYBRIDGE no that's really that's just like.
two miles.
a mile it's.
a mile oh.
 that's the sort of thing I wanted.
I had a dream about IVYBRIDGE road in IVYBRIDGE.
mm I don't really dream about that but I dream about other places recurringly no I yes IVYBRIDGE and places I dream about that they haven't been lived in all these years and I can still get into them with a key.
uhu.
and I still go back there how odd so what would you like to do Jack?
is there any of the onion bread left?
yes a little bit.
we could make ourselves sandwiches for the walk.

that would be sweet wouldn't it dear?
mm.
I've drunk all the beer I bought.
well that's not a problem we could get some more.
oh good.
but is there somewhere halfway that would be nice? oh what would happen if we walked to the IVYBRIDGE ferry not the Clipper the ferry.
well we almost got there er yesterday.
yeah and then got the ferry as a passenger as a foot passenger over to the other side that would be fun.
no it wouldn't.
it's free.
north IVYBRIDGE north IVYBRIDGE is I don't know what it is.
yeah well we don't know yet that's the thing well is there nothing there?
we could walk er to IVYBRIDGE.
oh no that's further isn't it?
is it?
well if we if we've got onto the other side on the ferry we could walk to IVYBRIDGE.
well we could walk to that silly erm er cable car thing.
oh yeah we could get a cable car.
would you be scared though?
erm no and then we could get the cable car back yes that's right get the ferry over.
but what's on the other side of the cable car? isn't that like that's like.
that's IVYBRIDGE.
no IVYBRIDGE is.
no that is.
this side of the river darling.
no no oh no but you're saying.
I think it.
get the ferry over.
no.
and then the.
oh.
cable car back again.
I wasn't but yeah we could do that.
give if that was the case it's the IVYBRIDGE stadium.
but the other side of the cable car is just like the IVYBRIDGE arena and.
yes.
boring things IVYBRIDGE just there.
er yeah.
we might come across something interesting.
oh they really need something in the middle of IVYBRIDGE and IVYBRIDGE don't they? mm.
that's bound to happen but you know the way they developed IVYBRIDGE? that's exactly what they need to do all they did with IVYBRIDGE was create a bit of like themes.
do you mean IVYBRIDGE?
no IVYBRIDGE where the IVYBRIDGE is.
yeah so that is IVYBRIDGE.
is it? well anyway all they did was go oh it's got history so built er a few themed type things.
darling could you pass me the Ipad please? and I'll find this.
oh it's plugged in again.
huh?
it keeps on erm yeah well.
oh it's down to three got to er charge.
I think it's probably gonna happen anyway I mean why don't we? well we need a plan don't we? are we gonna do a a IVYBRIDGE walk of some sort?
yes.
okay which means that I suggest we go out without coffee and have coffee somewhere unless you want to bring a flask of coffee then we could have it on our way would be nice. IVYBRIDGE pub crawl is a common Google search. yes now I think I suspect we are seriously lacking in pubs between IVYBRIDGE and IVYBRIDGE but there must be one somewhere a a pub to aim for to break up the journey I'm going to wear my crappy but warm coat and my well not quite crappy but comfortable boots so Doc Marten boots and warm coat.
oh there are pubs.
oh.
the IVYBRIDGE the IVYBRIDGE tavern must be here's the IVYBRIDGE IVYBRIDGE you've got to walk all the way up to the IVYBRIDGE before you get any of them.
well this is the thing so we've got to do about five miles before we find anything what I was wondering about is something that would break it up I need sunblock as well on this cos you could get quite sunburnt.
mm.
even though it's cold.
look that looks nice doesn't it dear?
yes where's the microphone on this thing? there's nothing to suggest maybe that's the no don't think yeah maybe that is the mic do you think that's the microphone?
probably yes.
in which case it should be that way round.
dinnae ken.
testing one two three testing is it louder if I have it there? or well the thing is if I have it like that I'm covering it up well okay technology ay? I suggest we have coffee in the IVYBRIDGE café to start with but do you want me me to make a flask? oh no because you'd want black coffee and I'd want white coffee.
a flask?
yes.
how sweet.
yes when does it get dark now?
well it's still light when I when it's dark when I leave my er erm at six.
I thought it was quite light yesterday I remember thinking oh it's still light so but I can't remember what time that was.
six.
yeah it's already one o'clock we'd have to leave the house posthaste so I can't see anything else that might be a oh could that be a microphone? mm that might be a microphone see a lot of those are are quite old cos they were written when they were constructing the Thames path.
it's going the other way this one.
where from?
IVYBRIDGE to IVYBRIDGE.
well we want to go well we need to find out about it we've not done anything of the sort yet and we've been here for three years.
we'll do it today darling.
yes.
