

Online Bingo is fast becoming one of the most popular pastimes on the ‘net as more and more players move from playing in their local halls and clubs to online. It’s easy to get started and appeals to a wide range of online players.
The chat is fun and friendly making bingo great for a good night in, or afternoon. Why wait until later? You can play at any time of the day or night when playing online.
Choose one of our recommended sites when playing and you’ll not go far wrong. Of course, as with all our reviews, full ratings are available to help you choose.
Reviews and Features
Online bingo is established but still growing fast. There are many new sites popping up all the time but make sure you play with a tried and tested, reliable site by checking out our bingo reviews.
To keep up to date check out our Gaming News pages where we feature lots of player promotions and news for players.
One of the great things about playing online is that you can also chat with the other players that are playing any time of the day or night. Unlike in poker rooms or casinos, the chat rooms in the online bingo halls are great fun and discussions take place on a range of subjects. Many people use the online bingo chat rooms to make new friends for life!
Go on, have a go, bingo is great fun – you don’t know what you’re missing until you’ve tried it.



When it comes to starting off playing casino games, or any other gambling game for that matter, there are a very basic set of basic gambling tips we’d all do well to stick to. I appreciate it’s not always easy but if you want to continue enjoying the game and … Read More »
Gaming Sites of Note – The Idiots Guide to Other Gaming Sites
Gaming Sites of Note Every once in a while we come across other sites that are gaming sites of note and of a quality we feel is worth sharing with those scouring our pages for gaming and gambling information. When we find a site worth of note and inclusion, we’ll … Read More »
Casinos – Understanding the Terms and Conditions
Before joining any new online casino or gambling site, it’s important that players read through the Terms & Conditions page which should be readily available for players to confirm acceptance when they create their account to start playing. When joining, you might be tempted just to check the box and … Read More »
The Gambling Idiots Guide to Playing and Staying Safe
Staying Safe When Gambling Online When you’re putting your money on the line to have some fun gambling at online casinos and other gambling sites, it’s important that you stay safe. This means making sure that both your money and your personal information is protected at all times; there’s always … Read More »
The Idiots Guide to Funding Your Account
Funding Your Gaming Site Account If you’re planning on playing at an online casino, poker room, bingo site or any other gaming site that allows bets or wagering for money then you must be prepared to spend some money. In order to do that, you need to get some money … Read More »
The Idiots Guide – Online Roulette
Idiots Roulette Online Roulette is a simple game to play, that makes players of all budgets can feel like they’re high-rollers. A simple game of chance, Roulette just feels like a casino game that comes with status, and it certainly is exciting! Roulette is one staple casino game that can … Read More »
The Idiots Guide – Online Blackjack
Blackjack for Idiots Blackjack is a game that attracts many players both at online casinos and brick and mortar casinos because of its quick game play, and decent odds that players will win. Unlike in other online casino games, like Video Poker, which require players to play hand after hand … Read More »
Online Scratchcards – The Idiots Guide
Scratchcards for Idiots Scratchcards were popularised as a fun, new instant-win lottery game, available from lottery stands around the world. Players were initially attracted to Scratchcards because of their instant gratification (players know whether they’ve won or lost immediately, and don’t have to wait for the draw of weekly lottery … Read More »
Slots – The Idiots Guide
Slots for Idiots Online Slots are designed similarly to the classic slots you’d find at Brick and Mortar casinos, and make up about 70% of the casino games found virtually. The variety of slots available online are classic style 3-reel and 5-reel slot machines, which means that players must lineup … Read More »
Online Bingo – The Idiots Guide
Online Bingo Idiots Bingo is a fun and entertaining way to gamble offline and is becoming hugely popular as an online gambling game too. With thousands of online bingo sites on offer virtually, it’s a game that’s reaching more and more people and growing in popularity very quickly. You might … Read More »



Today we’re going to take a look at Twister Poker with our recommended place to play Twister being BetFred Poker. We’ll assume you’ve already got an account at BetFred or that you know the drill when opening one. Twister Poker has become one of the more popular poker game genres … Read More »
Have you Got the Nuts? Poker Terminology.
Have you Got the Nuts? You might think that you’ve got the Nuts for playing poker and you sure need to hold em tight but in case you’ve heard poker players referring to “The Nuts” and you aren’t quite sure if you’ve got them, then here is a quick explanation. … Read More »
Putting an Opponent on a Range of Hands
Out of all the strategy concepts we hear discussed in poker, putting an opponent on a range of hands has to rank right up there and for very good reason. After all, being able to determine a specific range of cards your opponent could have is crucial in determining what … Read More »
Texas Holdem – Playing the Short Stack
A game of no limit Texas Holdem has been going on for quite some time. Most of the original players have already lost their chips and left their seats. You are left at the table with a small number of players that each have a relatively even stack (or perhaps … Read More »
Short Handed Limit Texas Holdem
Intermediate Poker Strategy – Short Handed Limit Texas Holdem A short handed poker game is one in which you play against six or less than six players. Playing this game can be advantageous especially when you are new to poker, as it has few players. The lesser the number of … Read More »
Texas Holdem Poker Strategy – Playing the Turn Card
There have been many articles written about how to play your cards pre-flop and also after the flop but few detail how your cards should be played in the other betting rounds – playing the turn card. This article is based around making the correct play or poker strategy when … Read More »
Professional Poker Player
Poker is the game of the moment, and looks set to be for the next few years anyway. At Doolallys.com we can’t think of any other game that could surpass poker as the world’s most popular online gambling game. With so many people playing poker online, stories of people turning … Read More »
How to Take Pot Size into Consideration
Beginner Poker Strategy – How to Take Pot Size into Consideration One of the key aspects to take into consideration when playing poker is the pot size. This will help you decide whether you should bet, raise, check or fold at any point in the game. Also, understanding pot size … Read More »
Poker Fish and Poker Sharks
Poker Fish and Poker Sharks – An Explanation If you are referred to as a “FISH” or “POKER FISH”, then you aren’t being paid any compliment, on the contrary, a fish in poker is someone who plays badly and is inexperienced. The definition of poker fish comes from the other … Read More »
Playing Pocket Aces – Texas Holdem Strategy
Starting Hands – Playing Pocket Aces An Ace in the Hole – Is that an Ace in your pocket or are you just pleased to see me? How you should be playing pockets Aces. Anyone who has played Holdem for any length of time knows that a pair of aces … Read More »



NetEnt, leading provider of digital gaming solutions, has continued its jackpot hot-streak after another lucky player from Sweden dropped a massive win on NetEnts Mega Fortune progressive winning €3,773,845.27 while playing Mega Fortune™ at LeoVegas casino. This is hot on the heels of a Mega Fortune Dreams jackpot reported previously. … Read More »
Mega Fortune Dreams Progressive Jackpot Pays Out Over 4 Million Euros
NetEnt, leading provider of digital gaming solutions, has continued its great start to 2018 after another lucky player secured a €4,084,430.35 jackpot while playing Mega Fortune Dreams progressive jackpot. The life-changing amount of money was won by a Sweden-based player whilst playing the progressive jackpot slot on Unibet casino. Mega … Read More »
Major Millions Slot – Progressive Slot Machine
The Major Millions Slot machine has always held some of the largest slot machine jackpots online. It’s comes in two versions with 3 or 5 reels, the Jackpot on the 3 reel machine is the same as the 5 reel version and both increase at the same speed. Major Millions … Read More »
Mega Moolah Slot – Progressive Slot Game
For those not used to the slang word of Moolah, it means money and there’s plenty of moolah to be won in the, safari themed, Mega Moolah progressive slot game. The Mega Moolah game offers four tiered jackpots in combination with this video slot game’s progressive jackpot. There will be … Read More »



2020 has been disasterous so far but NetEnt has livened up the casino with some worthly slots games. Read More »
Gold Money Frog
NetEnt is ramping up the excitement factor in its latest, enchanting slot release, Gold Money Frog™. This Asian-themed title offers three progressive Jackpots. At first, the name of the game, Gold Money Frog may be a little offputting but players searching for Gold trinkets in this 5-reel, 3-row slots title … Read More »
Durian Dynamite from Quickspin – Smelly Fruit Festival?
When I first heard that Quickspin were in the process of finalising a game based on the rather strange and often smelly Durian fruit, I must admit to not being over enthusiastic! Durian Dynamite looks to provide a real fruit festival though with a nicely produced slot game that ticks … Read More »
Turn Your Fortune and Turn Your Fortune Max Slots
NetEnt does its again with a slot game offering luxury with the launch of Turn Your Fortune TM – With MAX version Inspired by French Art Nouveau, Turn Your Fortune TM and Turn Your Fortune MAX offers players an experience of majestic grandeur, stunning collectable symbols and exciting game mechanics. … Read More »
Berryburst MAX Times Two Debuts
Press Release – NetEnt has launched Berryburst and Berryburst MAX – the first double release from its groundbreaking, mixed volatility product line. Berryburst is a frenzy of floating and fluctuating fruity fragments in a 5-reel, 3-row video slot. It features the repeatedly successful Cluster Pays™ mechanic allowing players to see … Read More »
MAX Games at NetEnt with BerryBurst MAX
NetEnt, the innovative and slots game specialists are expanding their slot offering with the launch of the MAX games products. The concept simultaneously caters to different player groups and their motivations and allows operators to address different needs with one game launch and marketing push. MAX games are released in … Read More »
Asgardian Stones from NetEnt Set to Immerse Players in a Mythical Quest
NetEnt, leading provider of digital gaming solutions, has unveiled its newest fantasy-based game, Asgardian Stones ™, which delves into the realms of Nordic mythology and includes industry first crush features. The 5-reel, 3-row, 20-bet lines video slot game sets pulses racing as it takes players into magical surroundings, where only … Read More »
Booming Games Debuts It’s Golden Royals Slot at ICE
Leading slot developer Booming Games is targeting new markets and further growth this year after a landmark 2017. The company has established deals with major operators such as Betsson Group, Vera&John, BetClic Everest and Aspire Global over the last 12 months. It enhanced its portfolio with the release of a … Read More »
Slotmillions – First Mega Fortune Millionaire
A Slotmillions player is enjoying a Mega Fortune win after the NetEnt slot game paid out a 2018 perfect start progressive jackpot of €2,553,604.67 while spinning the reels on the progressive jackpot slot, Mega Fortune™, a regular Millionaire maker. The €2.5m prize was claimed by a UK-based player, who wishes … Read More »
Slot Game Jackpots Hit 321 for NetEnt in 2017
NetEnt reveals that 321 slot game jackpots were paid out during 2017 – amounting to €78.3 million. Mega Fortune™, Mega Fortune Dreams™, Arabian Nights™ and Hall of Gods™ are NetEnt’s four global accumulative jackpot games. Together they give operators access to the largest online slot game jackpots in the iGaming … Read More »



